It's not hard to really look at the
results we've seen and be that surprised
that the markets continue to rally.
>> I would not be outright short risk. Like
I said, the weight of earnings is still
too strong.
>> For now, earnings and CapEx are really
driving this market.
>> AI and that trade may be continue to
drive the market.
>> Right now, we're anticipating about a
mid-single-digit climb for the S&P 500
from here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, stocks up, oil lower.
The president doubling down pushing for
a diplomatic solution as China's foreign
minister is urging Iran to find a
lasting truce. The average gasoline
price across this nation topping $4.50 a
gallon for the first time in almost 4
years. We start this morning with
different reporting from Axios. Checking
out it reads as follows. The White House
believes it's getting close to an
agreement with Iran on a one-page
[music] memo of understanding to end the
war and set a framework for a more
detailed set of nuclear negotiations.
That piece driving [music] this price
action. Equity futures up by 3/4 of 1%
on the S&P 500. Equities up across the
board. The Russell up by 1.5. Crude
down. WTI lower by 9%. $93 and Brent
just about holding on to 100 down by 8%
this morning. That's helping yields fall
by 7 basis points on a 2-year this
morning. 10s down by 8. Your 10-year
4.35.
>> We've seen this movie before [music] in
terms of some of the rhetoric, the
verbal intervention on both sides. This
time, however, [music] it's being
received by markets with a bit more
credibility simply because it follows a
lack of desire to escalate the conflict
number one, which we've seen on both
sides, [music] and B, this idea that
China is getting more involved in
talking with Iran about my maybe cooling
[music] it, coming to the table and
having some sort of diplomatic
resolution. Those two factors leading
this market to take these headlines a
little more seriously.
>> We're working through this story [music]
just piece by piece. So, let me to share
another section of it with you. In its
current form, the MOU would declare an
end to the war in the region and the
start of a 30-day period of negotiations
on a detailed agreement to open the
strait and limit Iran's [music] nuclear
program and lift US sanctions. There's
still a lot of work to be done here.
>> Right, it's the start, potentially the
beginning of the end when it comes to
the diplomatic [music]
route between Iran and the United
States. And not only that, we don't even
know word for word what is in this
[music] one-page memo. And then we need
to wait 48 hours for the Iranians to
respond. So, yes, there's a lot of
hopiumism as you call it, a lot of opti-
optimism right now in the market, but I
think it's important as well to be
cautious.
>> think about why we've got this [music]
hopium this morning. Gasoline prices
north of 450 and evidence of the last 24
hours. Think about the last 24 hours.
If there is a commitment to anything,
it's not resuming hostilities. Turning
[music] a blind eye to what's happened
so far this week and the aggression that
Iran has shown, I think showed [music]
you just how committed this
administration was to not resuming this
war.
>> Operation Epic Fury is over. That's what
we learned last night, and there is a
new phase
>> [music]
>> that has to do with reopening the Strait
of Hormuz, and that's where the emphasis
is. That's the reason why this market
wants to look through this. It is
important to note though, the reason why
this market wants to look through any
kind of pessimism [music] coming from
Middle East is
people don't know how to price it, and
so they're sick of thinking about it. B,
they like the earnings that they're
seeing and they want to get bullish. So,
they're looking for any excuse to get
bullish. [music]
And C, they often have seen oil price
shocks as transitory, temporary. They
want to see this one, too. They've been
trying to like move away from that kind
of thought process over the past couple
of weeks, [music] and now they're
doubling down.
>> It's not even Operation Epic Fury that
Secretary Rubio yesterday said is is
over and they're [music] moving on to a
new phase. Project Freedom was supposed
to be that new phase to escort, guide
humanitarian in a humanitarian capacity
[music] ships out of the Strait of
Hormuz. The president last night decided
that that is also on pause before we got
this Axios report. So, there's a lot of
momentum going towards they really want
to take [music] the offer.
>> This is not the only bullish pillar
underpinning this equity market this
morning. AMD by the way in the
pre-market and we'll spend some time on
this throughout this morning. AMD is up
by 18%. [music]
18 18 in early trading. Coming up this
hour catch up with Max Cantor of HSBC
with stocks adding to fresh record
highs. General Karen Gibson of Academy
Securities as the US pushes for a final
agreement with Iran. A.J. Goldberg of
Seaport he joins us with AMD [snorts]
sending tech stocks much much higher. We
begin this hour with stocks rising on
reports the US and Iran are closing in
on a deal to end the war. Max Cantor of
HSBC writing any step closer to the
Strait of Hormuz reopening would likely
be taken as a significant positive. Max
joins us now for more. Max, welcome to
the program. Is a resolution to all of
this a prerequisite for further gains?
>> No, I don't think so because I think
what we're forgetting is the big buyers
and the big drivers of this rally has
been really not really discretionary
investors. You guys were just talking
about, you know, people want to get more
bullish and people want to be they're
sort of sick of the the geopolitics
here. They want to go and and focus more
on the earning side of things. I I would
view that slightly differently in the
last month and a half I've barely met
any investor that really had great
conviction which you kind of get if
you've got to mark to market every day,
right? And things are just flip-flopping
around so much. So, it's not like
discretionary investors both on the fast
money and the real money side have
really put on new trades in size and in
conviction. What's happened was two
things was number one I think that was
the first leg was unwinding of a crazy
amount of downside hedges. That has
helped. And number two was really that
very depressed positioning of systematic
investors, of momentum players, CTAs,
volatility target funds. And actually,
when you look particularly at volatility
target strategies, they've actually
de-risked a lot more than what the
pickup in volatility would have
suggested. So, particularly the vault
target strategy still have a bit more
room to re-lever. And overall, over all
of our systematic positioning stuff is
only about 35th percentile. It was much
lower. It was toward 10th percentile a
month and a half ago. But we're not even
net short. So, I do think actually any
kind of incrementally good news or less
bad news on the geopolitical side is
enough to keep that systematic buying
going.
>> So, Max, you make a good point. I'd make
an additional one. The Middle East is
where people had low confidence. They
had a lot of conviction on tech. And
they've been crowding into that trade.
AMD an example of that again this
morning. The stock is up by 18%. The
numbers are great. First quarter sales
up 38%. Revenue from the data center
business up by 57. Strong guide as well.
We've seen these names absolutely rip,
Max, over the last month or so as people
have crowded into names they have
confidence in. If we do settle the issue
in the Middle East, does it at least
open the door, set the stage to a
broadening out of this rally?
>> Yeah, I think it does. I think it does
particularly for some of the cyclical
names. If we go, you know, if the front
end of rates goes down like it does this
morning, not only in the US, but
particularly in Europe, in Asia, really
across the globe, that should set the
stage for the more cyclically exposed
industries, cyclically exposed sectors
to really rally a bit more. That means
in the US, you want to be looking at
things like XRT, US retail, like home
builders, like the regional banks. Look
at things like BDC spreads, right? You
look at business development companies
spreads. We've all been really worried
about private credit in the last couple
of months. The fact is that in the last
3 weeks, BDC spreads have come down an
awful lot, and that should give also a
bit of comfort to the higher beta, to
the regional banks. But also, I think
you we're we're still maximum overweight
in equities. We have that maximum
overweight on particularly in emerging
Asia, where you've got both stories.
You've got the potentially positive news
flow around the Middle East, but you've
also got that earnings and the tech and
the AI and semi story behind of you. So,
you can play both. So, to us, the real
real preference is still really in
emerging Asia.
>> Max, can you have big tech continuing to
outperform even with a broadening out to
this degree?
>> I don't think they will outperform that
much anymore. I think it's But, it's not
a case of what we had in January and
February, where people were playing AI
funding concerns. Remember, when you
know, what John just was saying that
people are piling in into and crowding
into the tech trade. That was very
different 2 months ago. 2 months ago, we
were talking about, "Okay, do I need
software? Do I need commercial real
estate?" Remember, we had 2 weeks of
every day some other industry was sold
off because of AI. And people were
actually planning out of the AI and the
tech trade, and were playing much more
the AI funding concerns. That was what
was driving tech and AI valuations to
near 10-year lows when we compare it to
the broader market. So, I don't think,
going forward, it's a question of,
"Okay, I need to get out of tech, and I
need to forget about the AI story. I'm
just going to play the equal weight S&P
or the Russell." It's a story of tech
and some of the other cyclical stuff.
So, I think it's more the other ones
catching up, rather than tech really
catching down.
>> I would love to have Jeff Currie or Amos
Hochstein here listening to what you
were saying, as they talk about the
concern about molecules that are not
getting through the Strait of Hormuz,
and the pain that is potentially
deepening every single day. At what
point do you have to factor that into
your growth projections, your optimism,
given the fact that there has been a
hit, even if it hasn't been fully
experienced to date?
>> Look, I think people have been
to be to be perfectly honest, just
flat-out wrong on that. because when you
look at earnings, right? It's not that
the equity market is pricing something
completely different than the rates
market and it's totally out of sync and
they're pricing two different outcomes.
No. Look at the S&P nowadays. You've got
to deal with the cards that you're dealt
with. You look at the S&P, you look at
the market cap, it's no longer an index
that is that economically sensitive. You
look at proper consumer cyclicals in the
S&P, that's about 4% of market cap. So,
even if we were to feel some sort of
effect on consumption in the next couple
of months, it's unlikely that the S&P
broad risk appetite coming from equity
markets, from US equity markets, is the
right place to play it. Just to give you
an idea, tech and AI stocks, the ones
directly related to tech and AI, they've
been 28% of market cap just 2 years ago.
That's now 50% of market cap. So, what's
much more important is what a DRAM price
is going to do in the next 2-3 months.
Are they going to go up or go down?
That's much more important to the
broader risk appetite outlook that comes
from the S&P or from the US equity
market outlook and then spans to credit
and to other risk assets.
>> Max, if the market is moving on from
what is going on in the conflict of the
Middle East, is the next big potential
catalyst going to be next week when
President Trump sits down and meets with
Xi Jinping?
>> Yeah, I think that could be a
potentially really positive catalyst cuz
I don't think if if nothing comes out of
it, I don't think it's going to be that
much of a negative catalyst. Whereas, if
we do have some sort of commitment or
some sort of saying, "Look, you know
what? We're going to meet in 3 months
again and we've got some agreement on
some some things maybe around investment
already." That already, particularly for
tech and via AI, could actually be a
real real positive. Think about things
like Nvidia, right? The Or or overall
when you look at imports now coming into
the US, right? From semiconductors,
that's gone up hugely. Look at Look at
semiconductors and other electric
equipment import prices, that's in
double digits now. That's how strong
really
that demand for AI and tech and semis is
in the US. If there's something coming
out, just some bits of like, yeah, you
know what? We keep on talking, we keep
on meeting, we'll schedule the next
meeting already. I think that's enough
given that low systematic positioning
that we still got, it's enough really
for another leg higher in risk assets
broadly really.
>> Hey Max, it's good to see you and great
to catch you up. Max Kenda of HSBC
bullish route all of this. And if you
are bullish on this market, you are
getting the best of both worlds so far
this morning. On the Middle East, some
encouraging signs reportedly on the
diplomatic effort. Crude is down by 9%
front end of the futures curve at 93 on
WTI and Brent crude around 101. But it's
not the only part of the trade this
morning. Tech is absolutely ripping.
Bremo, we've talked about it a couple of
times already. AMD is flying in the
pre-market.
>> their second quarter revenue will be
11.2 billion dollars. That compares to
the expectation of 10 and 1/2 billion
dollars. You pointed to this figure, the
fact that it's data center business grew
57%. I mean, we're talking about
mind-boggling types of numbers. They're
putting up growth rates that we had seen
a couple of years ago and said it's not
sustainable. The semiconductor rush is
real. There are 725 billion dollars of
spending this year behind it, and that
is what is sustaining a lot of this
optimism.
>> 17 to 18% rally in the pre-market so far
this morning on that single name. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
this morning. There are many with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more. Hi
Yohara.
>> Hi John. The White House believes it's
nearing a deal to end the war with Iran.
[music] Axios reporting officials have
outlined a one-page memo of
understanding including Iran [music]
committing to a moratorium on nuclear
enrichment, the US lifting sanctions,
and both sides reopening [music] the
Strait of Hormuz.
Israeli officials responding to those
developments, the country's energy
minister saying to Iran must agree to
all US Israel conditions and that the
Hormuz blockade should be maintained
[music]
as long as talks are still underway.
And as you all just said, AMD shares are
soaring nearly 18% [music] in the
pre-market. The chipmaker reporting
first-quarter earnings that beat Wall
Street
>> [music]
>> estimates and a surge in data center
spending boosting its sales forecast.
[music] Shares of AMD already up more
than 65% so far this year. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Johanna, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Johanna I relate to this hour.
Up next on the program, closing in on a
deal.
>> We have total control. As you know, the
blockade's been amazing. It's like a
piece of steel.
>> If everyone's ships are not getting out,
your ships are not getting out either.
That's not an act of war, that's a
defensive measure. It's a counter to
what they have decided to do. [music]
>> Up next, we'll catch up with General
Karen Gibson of Academy Securities live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Here's the price action this morning.
Session highs adding to record highs.
Equity futures [music] up by 3/4 of 1%
on the S&P, higher by more than 1% on
the Nasdaq. Thank you, AMD, for the tech
trade [music] this morning. We'll talk
more about that throughout this morning.
Turn to the bond market, yields lower
particularly at the front end of the
curve with that down by eight basis
points, 386.
Unlocked by this move in crude. [music]
We're down by 9% on WTI. It's a breaker,
93. 92 and just about holding on to
triple digits this morning, 101 on Brent
crude.
>> Yeah, there's expectation that there are
going to at least be talks. We've been
seeing the [music] tea leaves step by
step of the idea that no one wants to
really escalate. Now there's actual
discussion [music] about bringing the
two sides together with the involvement
potentially of China at least on an
advisory role, and that I think is a
really important fact.
>> It's our top story this morning. Under
surveillance, closing in on a deal.
>> We have total control. As you know, the
blockade's been amazing. It's like a
piece of steel. Nobody's going to
challenge the blockade. And uh I think
it's working out very well.
>> If everyone's ships are not getting out,
your ships are not getting out, either.
That's not an act of war, that's a
defensive measure. It's a counter to
what they have decided to do. If no
shots are fired at these ships, and no
shots are fired at us, we're not firing
[music] shots. But if we're fired on, we
will respond, and we will respond with
lethal efficiency.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran reportedly nearing an
agreement to end the war. Axios
reporting Tehran could respond to key
points within the next 48 hours. John
gets now to discuss is Tyler Kendall
from Washington. Morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this is
the latest sign that the White House is
pushing for a diplomatic solution, and
fast, as Axios reports that the US feels
that it is nearing closer to a
memorandum of understanding to declare
an end to the war, and then kickstart a
30-day period of negotiations to get to
a more detailed agreement. Now, you went
through some of the details at the top
of the program, but as it stands, the
process would see a gradual reopening of
the Strait of Hormuz over that
negotiating period, with the aim of
getting towards a deal that would put
curbs on Iran's nuclear program, and see
a lifting of US sanctions. But
importantly, on some of the finer
points, Axios is reporting that progress
has been made on Iran removing its
stockpile of already highly enriched
material, something that is a key
sticking point for the US. And that
also, Iran could potentially agree to an
at least 12-year uranium enrichment
moratorium. But we know President Trump
has previously said that he only wants
to see a permanent ban. Now, with all
this said, nothing is final, and US
officials in recent days have really
been trying to underscore that fractured
leadership in Iran could risk derailing
any progress towards a potential deal.
But still it does come after President
Trump just yesterday announced that he
was putting in place this quote
short-term pause for those efforts to
help guide ships through the Strait of
Hormuz. He says at the urging of
Pakistan, of course, a key mediator. And
after we saw the biggest flare-up in
fighting since the ceasefire began. But
John, at this point shippers are still
left grappling with what to do next.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio, before
Project Freedom was put on hold, said
that the US knows that it is going to
take time to build confidence with
shippers to get them to agree to put
their vessels through the strait. As the
US right now says that nearly 1,500
ships are part of that backlog.
>> Tanya, appreciate the catch-up as
always. Tanya Canto down in the nation's
capital. To build on this conversation,
General Kenneth Gibson of Academy
Securities writing, "As long as Iran
retains the ability to contest the
strait, we could face enduring
challenges to navigation. This may not
end until we have an enduring diplomatic
solution." General Gibson joins us now
for more.
>> General, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How much closer are we to that
diplomatic solution?
>> Well, I think the fact that there's an
exchange of points. Obviously that we
continue to talk and that now we've
paused and we'll wait 48 hours to hear
what Iran has to say. That's a positive
development. It will be interesting to
see what Iran has to say. And this is
kind of it sounds a bit like what Iran
has asked for. To decouple, let's
address the navigation issues first and
then get into the details of the nuclear
negotiation.
>> will that sequencing be?
>> Um I think it depend depend on a couple
of things. Of course, I don't know what
the details are in this one-page memo.
Do we retain the blockade until we get a
nuclear agreement? Or is this just about
getting ships in and out of the Gulf?
>> When it comes to the Strait of Hormuz,
why would Iran be willing to give up
that leverage? Cuz that is really their
one piece of leverage over the United
States and the rest of the world. So I
don't see how they even give it up. I
mean, so in what I wrote that you
quoted, it's their ability to contest.
They don't even have to control the
strait. They just have to have an
ability to contest and make it more
dangerous periodically. And as long as
there is a drone within range of the
straits, I think they will retain that
ability to contest the straits if they
choose.
>> Even if we are moving into a phase where
there's diplomacy and they're going back
and forth with these memos and then
potentially even a meeting, they will
just still try to maintain this ability
to contest it with drones or whatever
they have, speedboats.
>> don't mean to say that they'll actively
contest it. I just mean it's hard to
eliminate that ability. And I think as
long as there are there's positive
progress for them economically in terms
of lifting sanctions, in terms of
prolonging the negotiation for a nuclear
deal, it is in their benefit to
demonstrate good faith and to allow
ships through, but they'll always, I
think, have that ability.
>> Last night the president put out a Truth
Social post saying that he was pausing
Project Freedom. That's a humanitarian
effort. Why would you pause it?
>> I think yesterday's, or I guess it was
now the day before, the initial Project
Freedom Freedom mission was interesting.
Again, like so many other things from a
narrow military perspective, tactically
successful. We safely escorted ships
through. But Iran demonstrated there
could be a cost for that kind of
movement with their strike on the port
in Fujairah for the Emirates or hitting
another ship or two. And so, um, I think
there's a desire to
let's see if we can negotiate something
that will ensure additional safe passage
rather than do these contested
navigation that results in strikes
elsewhere.
>> How important is China to all of this
given the fact that earlier this morning
we had an official Chinese statement
saying that they were urging Iran to
discuss this diplomatically and prevent
any kind of resumption of kinetic
warfare?
>> So certainly it's very much in China's
interests to have this safe navigation
through the strait because they receive
so much of their oil and petrochemicals.
Not all of it, not even the majority,
but they receive a lot of it through
there. I think they have an ability to
influence Iran because of the tremendous
amount of product that they buy from
them, but I don't think they want to own
Iran's response. So, um, we also have
the Xi-Trump meeting coming up and I'm
sure this will be a topic.
>> Well, I just want to tie this all
together because until now we really
haven't seen many official Chinese
statements other than that they exist or
hope that there is restraint on all
sides and that they never enjoy warfare,
etc., etc. Otherwise, there's been
pretty much of a backseat. A lot of
people have been wondering where they're
playing in this and speculation on
various things. At this point though, do
you think they are a more key player
because of the upcoming meetings with Xi
and Trump and because of some of these
backchannel communications between China
and Iran?
>> Certainly, I think the Xi-Trump meeting
raises their importance in this
discussion and it will color much of the
discussion
that will occur between those two
leaders. Um, and perhaps is even some
leverage they may use in trade
negotiations. You know, their ability to
influence Iran is something that they
could offer, um, as the two leaders
discuss other issues.
>> Headlines like this will certainly
incentivize things. This from Bank of
America just moments ago. The title
reads as follows, the summer of $4 gas,
north of 450 again and on average across
this country will certainly lubricate
the talks, I would say, in the weeks to
come.
>> They might be lubricating some of the
headlines and some of the dialing down
of the rhetoric given the fact that oil
prices in the United States at the
highest average prices going back to
just July of 2022 heading into the
midterms and heading into the summer
driving season. This clearly is going to
be on the minds of political operatives
in DC.
>> And it's on the minds of every American
that drives past a gas station. You see
it. That is a tax on American families
every single day and this is what really
hurt the Biden administration and
obviously Trump who said he was going to
bring prices down for American people,
understands this going into the midterm
election.
>> General, in the seconds we have left,
clearly there is some optimism this
morning. What is the language that you'd
look for throughout this morning to
validate signs of real progress?
>> Well, if Iran is going to be silent for
48 hours, we may not see anything. But I
would watch to see their rhetoric. You
know, do they say, "We look forward to
reviewing this?" Or do they reject it
out of hand immediately? So, what do
they put out publicly?
>> General, appreciate your time. Thanks
for being here. It's great to have you
in New York. General Karen Gibbs on that
of Academy Securities. If you are just
joining us, some positive signs on the
diplomatic side of things, including a
big rally as well in tech. AMD is
absolutely flying. Futures are higher.
Session highs up by 0.8 on the S&P 500.
Crude is lower. Bond yields are too
across the curve.
>> There's clear optimism, and I think it's
really notable to show how different
these two stories are. Potential
economic hit from the oil prices versus
the trade in AMD. Max Kettner saying,
"This is a stock market [music] that is
less and less economically sensitive."
And that is a point I think really has
been emphasized.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Jake Ouberg of Seaport on AMD's
blockbuster forecast. Plus, Yohai
[music] has your morning movers.
Alphabet close to overtaking Nvidia as
the world's biggest [music] company.
We'll talk about that in just a moment.
From New York City, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
And this is a guide to the morning ahead
of us. 8:15 Eastern Time, ADP jobs data.
Look out for [music] that. 8:30, look
out for the quarterly refunding
announcement as well. Just where across
the curve will all this issuance go?
Will it change?
>> [music]
>> And if it doesn't change, at what point
will it change? Lots of questions in
fixed income. Ahead of all of that, the
headline this morning driving price
action, [music] this from Axios. The
White House believing it's getting
closer to an agreement with Iran on a
one-page memorandum of understanding to
end the war [music] and set a framework
for a more detailed nuclear negotiation.
Equity futures up by 0.9% on the S&P
[music] and the Nasdaq up by 1.5. Big
tech trade in here. We'll unpack some of
that in just a moment. I just want to
keep things cross-asset [music]
from the top down. Crude much lower by
9%. 92 on WTI. Brent crude just about
holding onto 100, down by 8% [music]
this morning. And that move is unlocking
this in fixed income. Two's 10s 30s.
Look at the front end of the yield curve
down by eight basis points, 385.
Remember 10s and 30s earlier this week
had closed to the highs of the year,
north of 5% on 30s, now back down
>> [music]
>> to about 493.
>> Yeah, people are looking at this and
saying, "Actually, the idea of some sort
of resolution here will [music] leave a
Fed and a ECB in a much better position.
They won't necessarily have to hike
rates in response." There is an optimism
that we don't always see when we get
some of this headline uh type of
intervention. I think it's important to
note that because [music] even though,
yes, oil prices are coming down, you
look at the December contract for Brent,
[music] that's down more than $6. So,
you can see that this is broad-based, a
prolonged look at what an easing in
these tensions would be, and that's
taking some pressure off central banks
globally.
>> This is promising, [music]
but I don't want to understate how
difficult the talks over the next 30
days might be if indeed this is the step
we'll take. [music] This came from CNBC
just moments ago that Iran is evaluating
the US proposal. I understand they've
got the next 24 to 48 hours to give an
official response to this. But let's say
they agree to it. We get this MOU. We
declare an end to the war, and we start
a 30-day set of negotiations.
You've then got to find a detailed
agreement to open the strait, [music] to
limit Iran's nuclear program, and lift
US sanctions. That's a lot of work that
needs to be done
>> [music]
>> beyond just 30 days.
>> And even when it comes to reopening the
strait, we just heard from the general.
What What say? She [music] said this is
about also having the confidence for
ships to be willing to go through,
making sure that the that Iran does not
contest it. And how easy is it to
contest it? Basically sending maybe one
speedboat, one drone. Also, how many
times have we been here before?
Back-channel discussions and at the end
of the day, they don't end up meeting in
Islamabad and they end up not happening.
>> [music]
>> We are moving closer. It's obvious this
White House wants that off-ramp, but
like we've said last year, this isn't
[music] like Liberation Day. The
president does not control it. There are
multiple parties involved.
>> Equity features. Session highs up by
0.9% on the S&P. Counting it down
[music] to the open in about 3 hours
away. With your morning movers, Yohara
has more. Hey, Yohara.
>> Hi, John. AMD adding fuel to what's
already been a blistering run for the
chip makers. Shares are now up more than
18% after the company delivered a
blockbuster [music]
outlook. And while Nvidia still
dominates AI chips, what you're seeing
increasingly is customers [music] trying
to look for alternatives due to all that
demand. And that is helping AMD win over
business. Turning to Super Micro, also
soaring in the premarket [music] up 15%
after the company delivered better
margins than expected and a better
profit [music]
forecast. That suggests it's getting
better at handling the high costs when
it comes to rolling out its [music] AI
servers and demand remains strong,
easing concerns around that controversy
surrounding [music]
its co-founder that customers would pull
back because of that, but you are not
seeing that [music] in the results in
the results. And we end on Alphabet.
Shares are up 2.3% as it closes in on
Nvidia for [music] the title of the
world's most valuable company, but
Nvidia not giving up without a fight. It
is now up 2 and 1/2%
>> [music]
>> in the premarket. It was in the red
earlier, but just speaks to this
optimism around potential resolution of
this war. [music] John.
>> Yohara, thank you. Just to stay on
Alphabet, this came from The Information
yesterday, reporting that Anthropic is
planning to spend $200 billion
over the next 5 years just with one
company, just with Google, which is part
of this rally we've seen so [music] far.
>> Google's outperformed tremendously over
the past 9 months and part of the reason
why is because they've proven that their
Gemini has actually competed really
directly with ChatGPT, with OpenAI, and
they have the footprint of the cloud
computing services to unroll some of
that to their customers. Again, don't
underestimate this company, but it
highlights how the the fortunes can
[music] change. They're up, Meta's down.
How is this going to shift around going
forward?
>> in fortunes in just 12 months. Massive
change, massive [music] pivot. On our
radar this morning, the White House
closing in on an agreement with Iran to
end the war. Axios reporting the terms
of the deal includes Iran committing to
a moratorium on nuclear enrichment and
both sides lifting restrictions on the
Strait of Hormuz. Elsewhere, Citadel CEO
Ken Griffin saying he's expanding his
company's Miami offices following New
York City Mamdani's push to tax the
rich. Mamdani planning to raise taxes on
second homes valued over $5 million. And
he used Griffin's apartment as an
example. Finally, AMD, what a move we're
seeing this morning. Shares soaring in
the premarket following a major earnings
beat. The results reflecting a flood of
spending on data centers leading the
chip maker to hike its sales forecast.
What a move we're seeing in the
premarket. Check it out. 18% higher, not
on the week, the month, or the year,
just on the session.
>> It gives you a sense of just how much
some of these names have risen and that
comes after a semis have already ripped
higher with an unprecedented run of
gains. When you start to look at some of
the numbers, you start to understand a
little bit more. AMD is the number two
chip maker behind Nvidia and they
produce a lot of CPUs, not necessarily
the GPUs that Nvidia came out with.
They are cheaper, they also use less
energy, the central processing units, so
they're used in more simple
calculations. They expect that server
CPU revenue will grow more than 70% in
the current quarter. That gives you a
sense of the pace of growth that we're
seeing, underscoring why you're seeing
such a huge pop post earnings.
>> And on the CPU data market, they're now
saying that there's going to be a it'll
grow greater than 35% annually reaching
over $120 billion by 2030. In November,
they only saw this growing at 18%. So,
the rate of increase is so rapid. And by
2030, we're not going to be talking
about this conflict in Iran, are we? So,
the market has really moved on.
>> Hey, we hope. We hope.
>> True.
>> Axios reports 2030.
>> I mean, it's
>> still playing that game?
>> It's a fine the 1970s and early 1980s.
So, you know, I'm just saying that that
area can reap the rewards of that
clearly has moved on.
>> I know. We we got the joke. I know. I
know. We We did I got it. All right. AMD
up by 19% in the premarket. No one
thinks we better not be. Anyway, let's
talk about AMD. Jay Goldberg of Seaport
maintaining a neutral rating on AMD
following earnings writing strong CPU
demand has been driven by a surge in
inference workloads for a genetic AI.
Gross margins are holding up despite
rising memory prices. Jay joins us now
for more. Jay, welcome. Let's just do a
mini clinic if we can for people just
joining us that don't follow the sector
like you do. There's been an obsession
with GPUs and now an obsession seemingly
to CPUs. Why the change? What's driving
that?
>> Yeah, that's right. We got to get into
all the acronyms. G- GPUs are really
good for doing sort of core AI
calculations for chatting and LLMs and
all that.
But then what do you actually do with
that result, right? You need to sort of
incorporate that into some other
function on on the web, right? It goes
into your agents, it goes into your your
other web software. And that's that's
really That's GPUs aren't good for that.
You need CPUs for that. And so that
difference that difference matters. And
it I I know I know all the acronyms
confuse people, but CPUs are good for
sort of general purpose workloads. GPUs
are really good at AI workloads. And so
when you combine the two, you really
need a very powerful CPU for all this to
work.
>> So, Jay, just build on that and maybe we
can fold AMD into the conversation at
the same time. Which company is best
positioned for that shift, for that
workload?
>> That's that's a that's a great question
because, uh, you know, for years Intel
dominated CPUs and then AMD took
advantage of some of Intel's missteps
and really caught up with Intel in the
data center. Uh, and today I think
there's a pretty strong case that you'll
see AMD is is going to be bigger than,
uh, Intel in the data center this year.
Um, but but at the same time Intel is
doing a lot to catch up. So, that's
that's going to be a pretty, uh,
a tight competition there.
But in addition to that, you have ARM
now making CPUs and you have, uh, many
of the hyperscalers designing their own
CPUs. So, it's gotten to be a very
complicated market. Um, for right now
that's great. Uh, there's the market's
growing and there's plenty of room for
everybody.
>> There is a question of how far this can
go, Jay. I mean, I'm looking right now
AMD shares, even before this rally, were
up 66% so far this year. You're talking
about a not insignificant company,
right? I mean, we're talking about a
company, uh, with a market cap of almost
600 billion dollars and you're seeing
moves that look like a penny stock. How
do you even begin to price the kind of
exponential growth that we're talking
about with CPUs with the likes of AMD?
>> So, so for AMD, I it's pretty
straightforward. In addition to sort of
them talking up the general size of the
market and the the TAM, um, their their
underlying numbers went up a lot, too.
Um, A- AMD is, you know, under under
Lisa Su. I mean, she doesn't get enough
credit for being one of the best CEOs in
the industry.
They're just a solid execution machine.
They keep improving mostly slowly and
steadily, but sometimes you get days
like this where they have sort of big
increases. So, I think they can they can
grow into these numbers, um,
and keep earnings going, right? They
they have a pretty strong they've put
out like a five-year forecast, which is
pretty rare in this industry, and, uh,
they're, you know, they're they're well
ahead of
uh, well ahead of track to to hit those
numbers.
>> As an analyst, how do you factor in
memory shortages, which have plagued
every single processing operation, as
well as a lot of the industrial base
that's looking for just basic
components?
>> Yeah, they got a lot of calls questions
about that on the call last night. Um
memory is the number one topic here. And
I think what they're they're basically
saying is one is they've worked for a
long time with the memory suppliers to
make sure that they AMD have enough
memory for their own needs. Uh it is a
challenge, but it's one that they're
able to pass on because you know,
everybody is in engaged in this. Even
you have even have the hyperscalers
working directly with the memory vendors
to secure allocation. Um and in some
sort of you know, weird weird calculus,
it's it's helped them because it has
dampened consumer product demand. So you
see some of the consumer chip companies
needing less memory this year. They
can't afford it. It's gotten too
expensive. And that's opened up capacity
uh for AMD to secure more. So it's the
number one topic in the industry right
now. It is it is clear that it's a it's
a pressure for some for everybody. It's
it's being felt harder by some than
others.
>> Jay, I'd love to just quickly get your
take as well on Intel. The US government
obviously made that stake in August.
Since then, the stock has been on an
absolute tear. Are you seeing real
changes in Intel for it to become a
player like its peers?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I mean,
first is Intel's gone a long way in
fixing the mistakes it's made over the
last 10 decades. Um they've they've
greatly improved their technical
capabilities. Uh
we have the new CEO Pat Gelsinger who's
also done a lot to improve the culture
and the incentives and sort of just the
focus of the company. Um you know, this
is a company that was dominant for 40
years. And I think they they think they
have a shot at sort of regaining that
top position. Uh I you know, I I think
just surviving and getting to the point
where they can become a sort of new
player, a foundry for third parties, I I
think that's a viable path for them in a
way it wasn't a year ago.
>> We had exclusive reporting that Apple is
holding some discussions about using
Intel chips. How big of a win would that
be for Intel?
>> So, that's the favorite part cocktail
party guessing game we play in the
semiconductor circles now is trying to
figure out who Intel's first foundry
customers will be and it certainly looks
like Apple is going to be the lead
there. That would be massive. That would
be massive. They've announced a few so
far. None of them None of them are quite
clear how big it is, but winning Apple
would be a huge huge validation and and
huge for numbers down the road.
>> Hi Jess, good to see you. Some massive
moves we're seeing here in tech. Jake
Alberdae of Seaport. Big moves in the
pre-market gains of almost 20% from AMT.
Encouraging signs also elsewhere for
this economy. This from Disney just
moments ago. EPS 157, the estimate 151.
That's an upside surprise from the Walt
Disney company.
>> And they reported
a beat across the board in all three of
their divisions, entertainment,
experiences, and sports. So, this really
shows that it's not just coming from the
Disney lands and Disney worlds around
the world which have typically driven a
lot of this. It's also direct to
consumer that achieved a double-digit
profit margin for the first time.
They're able to pass along those costs
to consumer. Remember, Disney was not
focusing as much on the number of
subscribers, but the fee that they were
charging for it and this is the reason
why you have to buy your sports from 15
different providers cuz they know that
you'll pay for it. And I'm talking to
you, John. But it what this really does
point to to me is it's not just a story
about tech. It is also a story about the
consumer. If they can go and spend more
than $100 for a ticket to Disney World
and go on a cruise and buy the little
Mickey Mouses, well, good luck.
>> go out there and spend $1,000 a year on
Hulu.
>> [laughter]
>> Right?
>> Well, that's That's what I was going to
say. That's what I was going to say.
>> That too. The stock is higher in the
pre-market by 7%. It's another upside
surprise for corporate America. Let's
give an update on news worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Yohai
Ra has more. Hi Yohai Ra.
>> Hi John. [music]
Alphabet raising $17 billion in its
biggest ever sale of euro denominated
bonds and its first Canadian dollar
notes in [music] its push to fund AI
infrastructure. Alphabet has diversified
its funding away from the US dollar more
than any other American hyperscaler.
Anthropic unveiling new AI agents
designed to handle financial services
tasks including drafting pitch decks and
reviewing [music] financial statements.
The new tools are aimed at professionals
across banking, insurance, asset
management, and fintech.
And the Securities and Exchange
Commission releasing a proposal to allow
US companies to report earnings
semi-annually instead of quarterly. The
move could potentially reduce how much
information publicly traded firms must
[music] share with investors. That's
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yohai Ra, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, a crude
reality.
>> We're going towards
a cliff
on oil and oil products
by the end of this month. If you're an
American listening to this and you think
you're going on vacation
this summer, [music] plan for a very,
very expensive one.
>> How much is paying it?
Uh maybe.
Up next we'll catch up with Paul Donovan
[music] of UBS from New York City this
morning. Good morning. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
So, this is the reporting so far this
morning setting the stage for the move
we're seeing in crude. This from Axios.
The [music] White House believes it's
getting closer to an agreement with Iran
on a one-page memorandum of
understanding to end the war [music] and
set a framework for more detailed
nuclear negotiations. Take that, push it
through crude, a break of 100 on Brent,
99. [music]
We're down by 9% on the session. WTI, by
the way, is down by almost 11 to 91. We
might have a sneak peek of the 80s if
this continues. Take that move, push it
through the bond market, [music] and
looking these moves across the curve,
yields down by nine basis points on
twos, down by close to 10 basis points
[music] at the belly of the curve. The
10-year is down to 4.33, was north of
4.40 earlier this week. 30s were north
of 5%
earlier this week. Now it's down to
4.92. And with those two moves, you've
got this in equities.
Almost vertical in the last hour or so.
>> [music]
>> Session highs at 1% on the S&P, up by
two on small caps, the Russell flying.
>> Yeah, the idea of a broadening out trade
can really take hold if the economically
sensitive sectors of the market start
getting a benefit from potential either
rate cuts or at least not a rate hike,
[music] and you have some sort of easing
in the consumer tax of higher gasoline
prices. That will turbocharge the rally
that would have been. That's what a lot
of people keep saying. The rally that
would have been had there been no war in
Iran.
>> Dampening the boom, you've talked about
it repeatedly. We've been dampening
[music] a potential underlying boom in
this economy.
>> And that's the reason why AI has just
taken over and really [music] provided
the heartbeat for some of the positivity
that people feel that is economically
removed whatever is going on in Iran. Do
we see a sustained peace, ceasefire?
[music]
Do we get an agreement? All still on the
table. And big, big questions. However,
the rhetoric is giving people a really
good feeling this morning.
>> There's a lot of progress to be made.
There's a lot of talks to be had, a lot
of negotiating, but
we're making just [music] small signs,
small steps forward, and happened to
alleviate some strength and stress in
the commodity market. With gasoline
prices topping 4.50 across this nation
for the first time since the summer of
2022. [music]
Paul Donovan, chief economist at UBS
Global Wealth Management, joins us now
for more. Paul, welcome to the program.
We'd love your reflections on the latest
news, but first of all, just set the
stage for us with the US consumer. How
close were we to a consumption crunch?
>> Well, we're not out of the woods yet,
I'm afraid. Um what we are experiencing
in the United States at the moment is,
if you'll forgive the technical economic
jargon, the Wiley Coyote effect. We've
run off the edge of the cliff, we're
running through midair,
but we have not yet had economic gravity
pulling us down. And that's because US
consumers have been tapping into their
savings rate to pay first for the
tariffs, and now for the higher gasoline
prices. So, as long as consumers are
using savings, we can carry on with
normal levels of consumption elsewhere.
But if that burden gets too much, if
they're no longer prepared to continue
to draw down their savings rate to
afford these shocks to consumption from
tariffs and from oil prices, then
economic gravity exerts itself, and we
drop down into the abyss.
>> Paul, typically, and that sounds
terrifying, but typically, when it comes
to central bankers, they track a basket
of goods. For consumers, I remember a
note you put out in the last few years,
a really important note about the
frequency bias of the average consumer,
that they pick one thing that matters to
them, and that shapes their perception
of how high prices are. How's that going
to shape their perception of how high
prices are across the economy, and how
might it change their attitudes to
spending?
>> Well, so this is where I think we need
to make a distinction in in the world of
social media hype and sensationalism,
that consumers are very focused on
high-frequency purchases, and that
shapes their political perceptions as
well. You know, we've seen, for example,
President Trump's approval rating on the
affordability crisis in the states is
very, very weak, and that's reflecting
this false perception that inflation is
higher than it actually is, because you
remember the price of gasoline, you
remember the price of the Snickers bar.
That's what shapes your inflation
perception. The reality is, however,
that consumers are saying everything's
terrible, inflation is out of control,
but they do still have the ability to go
out and spend. And if an American
consumer has the ability to go out and
spend, they will go out and spend. And
so that's what we're actually seeing.
There's this divorce between perception
and reality taking place.
>> Well, this to me is a reason why a lot
of people are talking about the idea of
some sort of new regime for inflation.
Where consumers can complain about it
all they want and feel terrible, but
they're willing to absorb it in a way
that maybe they weren't before the
pandemic. Do you see that behavior
trickling out in something that
companies are taking advantage of?
>> Well, I think certainly if we look at
the US in particular, um,
the tariffs were passed through to the
consumer pretty much 100%. Um, now what
I think we are seeing here is exactly
the same thing. But companies feel more
confident about passing on the costs.
We're not necessarily at this stage
seeing profit led inflation where they
pass on the costs and then a bit more
uh, and increase their margin. That's
not necessarily taking place. But
certainly I think consumers have been
more willing to accept the uh, the
higher prices. And that's because not
just in the states, but in in Europe, in
the UK, in Japan,
consumer balance sheets began this year
in actually a very strong position.
We've had unusually good conditions for
the consumer and so that has allowed
them to weather the shock uh, a bit more
readily. If consumers have been more
constrained, then I don't think they
would be so willing to accept the price
increases.
>> Do you think then that we could see some
sort of broadening out, some sort of
consumer led rally taking over from what
we've seen which has been dominated by
tech?
>> Well, I think certainly um, earnings
growth for the time being uh, for
consumer companies is not going to be
too adversely affected. If you can pass
on the cost 100%, then, you know, your
earnings growth isn't going to be
affected unless we get to that point
where economic gravity suddenly kicks
in, the consumer says, "Actually, you
know what? I'm not prepared to keep
cutting back on saving. I'm going to cut
back on consumption."
And that might come either because there
are concerns about job security. It
might come because you start to see
dramatically higher oil prices because
of physical shortages around the world.
It's not going to come, I think, in the
next few months. It's something really I
would be pushing out into late summer,
early October perhaps at the the outset.
That would be something which would then
start to damage the volume of demand.
But right now, consumer companies are
generally in an okay position, I would
argue.
>> Uh Paul, I've got to go because we've
got some breaking news, but I just want
to say you are one of the very best in
your industry, sir. We appreciate your
time. Thank you very much. Paul Donovan
there of UBS. He just makes economics so
approachable, doesn't he?
>> Yes. So easy to understand.
>> Favorite morning note.
>> Right. You're You're not alone. A lot of
people agree. On that breaking news,
just some additional details on this
so-called US proposal on a round of
30-day talks between the US and Iran.
>> Yeah, so what we have is that Iran is
evaluating evaluating this new proposal.
To With the proposal, Iran would start
to reopen Hormuz. The US would lift the
blockade. So that would mean a really
free flow of navigation. And then Iran
would have to commit to a moratorium on
nuclear enrichment, and that'll be
negotiated later. I look at this though,
and I think, "Is this really what the
president wanted?" His three red lines
were no nuclear weapon, they have to
deal with the ballistic missile issue,
and no money to the proxies. And I'm not
sure we're getting that all when it
comes to this one-page proposal that
Iran is now evaluating.
>> is certainly what the equity market
bulls wanted. Brent breaking a hundred,
down to 98. WTI [music]
breaking 90, down to 89.
>> Yeah, this uh enough for them and
they're moving on and they're pricing in
what has to happen over [music] the next
couple of years in an hour.
>> Up next, Chris Harvey of CIBC, Steven
Schull of the Schull Group, Bloomberg's
Geetha Ranganathan, and Matt Brill of
Invesco from New York City, the second
hour [music] of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
>> Perhaps equity markets, equity investors
are optimists and and bond investors are
realists.
>> This is an economy that has weak
breadth.
>> Listen to the doves. Don't listen to the
hawks.
>> There are still some really strong
positive US economic stories there.
>> Well, maybe there's a risk that rates
[music] will stay higher for longer.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, [music]
and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
What a move we've [music] already seen
so far this Wednesday morning. Check it
out, crude down 11% on Brent. It's a
break of 198, it's a break of 90 on WTI,
89. We're down by more than 12% in the
bond market. These moves across the
curve, yields
>> [music]
>> plummeting. Two-year yields down 10, 10s
down by nine, 433 on 10s, twos at 383,
and equities unleashed. Equity futures
up by 1% [music] on the S&P 500, on the
Russell up by two. The diplomatic effort
making some progress.
>> the opposite of a toxic brew? It is a
benevolent boom because ultimately
you've got all fire cylinder
all cylinders firing for [music] the
equity trade given the fact that
suddenly the pressure comes off central
banks just a touch with the idea that
even longer dated crude [music] coming
in quite a bit and earnings just keep on
beating across the board whether it's a
tech side or whether it's a consumer
side with Disney and Uber coming out
beating expectations. You put this
[music] together, people are feeling
really good even though there is this
one little asterisk, a lot has to be
determined.
>> I'd like to hear some from it from some
officials on the record. We haven't had
that [music] just yet, but we've got
some reporting starting with Axios about
an hour ago indicating that the White
House believes it's getting [music]
closer to an agreement with Iran on a
one-page memorandum of understanding to
end the war and then set the stage for
this 30-day period of talks where we
have to deal with a lot of complex
issues. Then we got a report from
Iranian Press TV, but I believe just
moments ago. [music]
>> Yeah, when it comes from the Iran
Revolutionary Guards Navy and I think
this is really important when it comes
to driving crude lower. You're talking
about the [music] biggest choke point,
one of the biggest energy choke points
in the world or potentially the Iranian
IRGC Navy is saying that's going to be
opened up with aggressors threats
neutralized and new protocols in place,
safe stable passage through the Strait
of [music] Hormuz will be ensured.
Potentially, they are opening up this
door [music] for ships to be able to
come through the Strait of Hormuz. This
is what would be massive and this is why
you're seeing oil react.
>> So, you're sitting here thinking I've
seen this before.
>> I know.
>> I remember this on April 17th.
The Strait of Hormuz is reopen and we
got into the weekend and it hadn't at
all. Is this different?
>> You know,
when we get the statement, it went on to
say
>> [music]
>> that the guards thanked ship captains
and owners for complying with Iran's
Strait of Hormuz regulations. So, the
asterisk here is it is our strait, it is
our rules. If we want to tax it, if we
want to attack it, that is up to us and
clearly that is not what the
administration of the United States is
intending when they say reopening the
strait. So, this is a bit of cognitive
dissonance. Nonetheless, it's better
than lobbing missiles at one another, so
people are taking it.
>> Conviction around this story is not
particularly high. It's been pretty
depressed for a while. Where do people
have confidence in this? AMD [music] is
flying in the pre-market. There is a
tech leg to this rally that has to be
appreciated. It's not just about what's
happening [music] in crude and
developments on the diplomatic push. AMD
is higher in the pre-market by close to
20%. Fantastic numbers from them.
They're higher by almost 21% in early
trading.
>> It's just bonkers for a company that has
a market cap of $600 million or so, but
they're talking about revenue growth
from their CPU unit of more than 70% in
the current the current quarter. Data
center business growing 57%
versus the estimate that was
significantly below that. All of these
coming in so far above what people
[music] had expected. So, the number two
chip maker firing on all cylinders.
Spending keeps ramping up and guess
what? Semiconductors, exactly what they
make.
>> We're adding to all-time highs in the
equity market. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Chris Harvey of CIBC
as equities notch another fresh record.
Steven Shock of the Shock Group as
gasoline prices top 450 and Matt Brill
of Invesco on big tech's latest AI debt
binge. We begin this hour with stocks
pushing higher on reports the US and
Iran are closing in on the agreement to
end the war. Chris Harvey of CIBC
writing a taco has catalyzed a sharp
shift from risk off to risk on. We
believe geopolitical risk has crested,
but risks are still lingering. Chris
joins us now for more. Chris, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You've had a great year so far. I'll say
it for you. I remember catching up with
you at the very start of the year and
you said this market was sleeping on a
lot of macro risk.
>> That's right.
>> Then we had the drop off in the equity
market. I think it was March 27th you
dropped the note and said we're
interested in adding some risk here,
just slowly. Then this market's ripped.
Where are you and the team now?
>> So, right now, you've had a lot of
catalysts play out. Equity markets are
up. We're thinking more consolidation.
We're thinking more you buy the rumor,
you sell the news. Markets are ripping
right now. That's great, but as you were
talking about, we don't have a deal done
just yet. Things are not moving through
the Strait of Hormuz. Oil is not just
going to it's dropping today, but
gasoline prices are not going to drop
that quick. And until we have a deal
done,
it's hard to see this. In addition to
that, that keeps the Fed on hold. And
so, we're just thinking the short term,
it's a bit more consolidation. We we the
market longer term, but near-term
consolidation.
>> understand from Wes. So, is it faith the
index level rally? Faith the tech
winners of the last month? Faith the
rotation we're seeing so far this
morning? What is it?
>> Yeah, John, it's not so much faith. It's
just, okay, we had that directional
move. We we saw we thought there was 10%
upside here. We got a lot of that. Now
it's about stock-picking, right? Get the
portfolio right. What we've been saying
all year long is, hey, move stay away
from those
the contrarian bet. What you want to do
is you want to buy things that are
working. We're still of of that opinion.
But, right, you need you need to have
good balance sheets. You need to have
good fundamentals, right? You have to
marry the two. So, focus that in um in
your stock selection, in your portfolio.
That's where the attention should be.
>> So, do you think that semis are
expensive or a buy?
>> What we think is I'm not going to answer
that directly. What we think
>> [laughter]
>> Come on, Chris. Just friends.
>> You you you and I had this conversation
earlier this year. It's like, don't
don't go bottom-fishing. A lot of semis
still have positive price momentum. They
have positive earnings. They have good
sentiment. Would we say buy them? Yeah,
they should be part of the portfolio.
Part of the portfolio should be things
that are working. Part of the portfolio
what you should be doing is staying away
from things that are broken. The economy
is not going to bail you out, right? You
have to have things that are working the
portfolio, but you also have to have
good fundamentals and you have to have
good balance sheet, and semis match up
some of that.
>> Some of people have noted that this
rally feels a little bit different in
earnings just because the earnings have
come in so strong. And frankly, it's so
broad-based. It's not coming just from
the tech sector. Deutsche Bank pointed
out that all 11 top-level sectors are
expected to show year-over-year earnings
growth for first time in 4 years. Does
that give you confidence, or are you
saying this is a one-off for easy comps
and a couple of other reasons
stay away?
>> So, what we've been saying is, hey, go
with the AI beneficiaries. On the
bounce, go with the AI beneficiaries.
You You get them in utilities. You can
get them in industrials, you can get
them in tech. That's pretty broad base.
The one thing we're still not there is
we're not there on small caps, right?
We're not negative, we're not positive,
but we need for me we we we're not going
to hit everything. What we want for
small caps to work is we want rates to
go down, we want a stronger economy, and
I'm just not seeing that yet, right? And
what we saw in earning season is if
you're AI or AI adjacent, great. If
you're general cyclical, you're saying,
"Yeah, I'm not really sure about what's
going on." And if you look at what's
happening at small caps since the middle
part of January, they really haven't
outperformed or they've only
outperformed by a little bit. I'm still
worried about the back half of the year
for earnings and earnings growth. We
need the the Fed to get involved. We
need rates to go lower for for that to
really work longer term.
>> This is really important, Chris, because
I did ask if you'd fade the rotation as
part of the story because you're seeing
the outperformance on smalls this
morning. Small caps up by more than 2%
off the back of this move in crude, off
the back of this move in yields. Would
you fade that then? Specifically?
>> I I I would fade that. Here's here's
something that's really interesting. So,
we're going to have the Russell
rebalance in June. If you look at the
top names in the Russell, I think they
account for about 25% of the return.
You're going to graduate those out.
Okay, so what's going to drive small
caps at that point in time? Again,
you're going to have to have the macro
on your side, and for the macro to be on
your side, that that means a Fed that's
more accommodative, rates that are
lower, and an economy that's
accelerating. We just don't have that
right now.
>> I've got to ask you then, outside of
tech, what do you like?
>> Again, it's it's the I don't mean to be
evasive, but it's the AI beneficiaries.
So, in utilities, it's more the GenCo
companies. In industrials, it's the one
the cooling companies. In tech, it is
some of
>> the secular themes?
>> It's more the secular themes. It's you
really it's hard to get involved with
these general growth themes because what
what are they saying? If you listen to
an earning season, "Hey, we're not sure.
Hey, it's unclear." Right? And the
economy is not accelerating at this
point in time.
>> When it comes to the Fed though, they
need potentially a resolution in the
conflict in the Middle East to
understand where inflation's going,
right?
>> They do.
>> So for small caps actually, it's relying
on what is going on abroad.
>> That's right. So here's the here's the
bull case, right? That we get some sort
of resolution between the US and Iran.
Uh the worst Fed can say, "Hey, this is
a supply shock. We can look through it."
Um Fed funds are too restrictive at this
point in time. We need to lower them.
And suddenly small caps begin to work.
Small caps begin to work. The consumer
begins to work. Why? Because HELOCs
become more attractive. Auto loans
become come more attractive. And then
the economy begins to accelerate. And we
can start talking about the housing
market getting involved. And the housing
bill that's that hasn't become a law
just yet.
>> I keep thinking about what Max Kettner
said at the beginning of the show, which
is that this equity market is
increasingly independent from the
economy. And it's increasingly uh
economically independent S&P 500 at
least. If the Fed were to cut rates
because they have an excuse to do so,
and that would spur some sort of rally
in small caps and beyond, would that
cause a bubble in big tech that seems so
far
uh to already be flying without that
kind of stimulation?
>> Yeah, I I don't know if it causes a
bubble in big tech, but can we talk
about a melt up? Yes, we can talk about
a melt up. Again, what would happen is
tech would be tech is working. It would
continue to work. But now you're going
to start to bring in all those
economically sensitive names. And oh by
the way, M&A activity should start to
kick up. The one thing we haven't talked
about is the credit markets are very
very healthy. Very strong. We should see
more M&A activity. In addition to that,
there are all these storied IPOs talking
about coming to market. We could see
that. And suddenly we have risk being
recycled in a very strong reinforcing
risk-on cycle. Could that be a a melt
up? Could that be I don't I don't think
bubble, but could that be a melt up?
Certainly in the back half of the year.
>> This may in crude has happened. We just
saw a 96 handle
on Brent just moments ago at the front
end of the futures curve, 97 this
morning.
>> Yeah, and it's not just the front end.
We keep talking about that. The back end
also seeing a rally, also the other way.
Also seeing a sell-off. I guess it's the
right kind of sell-off for this market
when you take a look at Brent crude.
People are expecting a resolution
because both sides want a resolution. It
takes a little bit more than that, but
that seems to be the tone coming out at
least from Iran and the United States.
>> Just tracking the oil majors in the
pre-market. Exxon. Exxon closed February
at 15250 before this war started. This
war didn't help. The end of this war
might hurt. Their stock is down in the
pre-market by 5%. It's now trading at
147 in early trading.
>> You saw concerns about what it will cost
to rebuild at some of the facilities in
the Middle East.
And what has caused some of the earnings
beats? It has been the higher prices. If
prices go down, well, that's a huge
tailwind for the profitability going
forward.
>> Exactly. The oil majors are just going
to are just going to track WTI
potentially lower. I'm shocked that WTI
now is below $90 a barrel. We were
talking earlier this week about $100 a
barrel. And for really WTI, $100 a
barrel has been a line in the sand for
this White House. And I think a lot of
people have been telling this White
House that May is when the physical
market is going to get incredibly tight.
We're drawing on inventories, and you
might actually see the futures market
catch up to that physical market. Well,
when you have optimism about potentially
a peace negotiation and the straight
opening, that is going to quickly
reverse things.
>> just a final word on energy in that
sector. Great start to the year.
>> Great start.
>> And where these things [clears throat]
got difficult when the war started. So,
just walk us through your thoughts now.
>> So, the thought is that people have been
parking themselves. So, everyone thought
that gold was a geopolitical hedge. They
realized that energy is a geopolitical
hedge. So, with this, we start to see
the flip back to gold and away from oil.
And you could see some really big moves
between those two commodities.
>> Interesting. Chris, thank you, sir.
Appreciate it. Chris Harvey there at CIP
What a move we've got in crude so far
this morning. Brent is down by 11%. WTI
is down by 12 and precious metals are
higher. Gold is up by 3%, silver is up
by 6.
>> Yeah, I was just looking at that. So far
as the duration of the conflict has
continued, you've seen gold and silver
as the worst performing asset classes.
Interesting that now people are heading
back. I wonder if it's also some of the
central banks saying, "Okay, we don't
have to spend this on buying oil and uh
supporting consumers. We can go back to
stockpiling the precious metal."
>> There's a lot of work still to be done
here, but some encouraging signs and a
big rally in the equity market up by 1%
on the S&P with an update on stories
worldwide. With your Bloomberg brief,
Yahaira Hasmar. Hi, Yahaira.
>> Hi, John. Iran [music] is evaluating the
latest US proposal to end the war, a
person familiar telling us here at
Bloomberg that Iran will start reopening
[music] the Strait of Hormuz today with
the US set to potentially lift its
blockade. A full deal with Iran that
would center on [music] its nuclear
program will be negotiated at a later
date.
Uber shares are rising [music] more than
9% in the premarket even after posting
mixed results. The company reporting
earnings that missed [music] analyst
estimates. Maybe the market taking a
signal from this. The CEO saying, "We
continue to expect the US mobility
business to accelerate further in 2026."
[music]
Disney shares also rising more than 4%
in the premarket after reporting second
quarter earnings that beat analyst
estimates. Disney [music] seeing
improved profitability in its streaming
business and guests spending more at its
parks, resorts, and on cruises. That's
your Bloomberg brief, John. [music]
>> Yahaira, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Just a string of earnings beats
so far this morning. Up next on the
program, the price [music] of peace.
>> People are learning to buy oil from the
United States. I also thought oil would
go up to 200, 250, maybe 300. I look
today, it's like at 102. That's a very
small price to pay for getting rid of a
nuclear weapon.
>> This morning, it's at 90 on WTI. Brent
just short of 98. Stephen Schork of the
Schork Group joins us next live from New
York City this morning. Good [music]
morning.
>> [music]
>> If you're waking up this morning,
welcome to the program. Check this
[music] out. And then I'll tell you
what's happened. Brent down by 11% 97.
>> [music]
>> WTI briefly a break of 90 to 89. We're
down by 11% this morning. Unlocking
yields [music]
lower across the curve. Down nine basis
points on twos, tens down by eight. And
equity futures [music]
absolutely flying. On the S&P 500 up by
1% on the Russell up by two. The story
started this morning [music] shortly
before 6:00 a.m. Eastern time. Around
5:00 this morning. This from Axios that
the White House believes it's getting
closer to an agreement with Iran on a
one-page memorandum of understanding to
end the war and set a framework for more
detailed nuclear negotiations. [music]
Now,
I don't want to allow the narrative to
be too defined by the price action this
morning. Yes, we are rallying pretty
hard, but no, we haven't made concrete
[music] progress yet. We certainly
formalize where we are and set the stage
for the diplomatic effort to continue.
>> Right now, the [music] market is just
taking an easing in tensions and a
desire to keep talking and some sort of
diplomatic resolution as the win. And
they're pricing in some sort of
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz based
on long-dated futures. [music] Whether
that actually happens remains to be
seen, but it's clear this market wants
to move on and focus on the positives,
which is the [music] earnings and some
resilience in the underlying consumer.
And that is the story from equities this
morning.
>> Earnings have been absolutely fantastic,
but the experience [music] of the last
two months, I think we've all been
conditioned.
Words are important, without a doubt.
The market will trade on them, of
course. We want to see this in reality.
[music] We want to see this in practice.
>> Absolutely. We need to see ships start
moving to the Strait of Hormuz for this
to really be [music] tangible for the
market. The market is trading on
narratives. And even if the Strait of
Hormuz is open, I think it's important
to understand the physical market is
still incredibly tight. Inventories have
been drawn down, and it is going to take
months for it to get back to normal.
>> Crude lumber this morning, Brent, at 97,
under Savannah's this morning, like the
price of peace.
>> People are learning to buy
oil from the United States. I mean,
they're making the trip. I also thought
oil would go up to 200, 250, maybe 300.
And I know it would be short-term, but I
look today, it's like at 102. That's a
very small price to pay for getting rid
of a nuclear weapon from people that are
really mentally deranged.
>> So, here's the latest this morning,
crude trading south of 100 as the US and
Iran move even closer to a deal to end
the war. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us now from Washington for more. Good
morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, you just
went through the price moves when it
comes to oil, but we know that it will
take some time for anything to trickle
down to retail gasoline, considering
that gas station operators often need to
factor in their margins before they can
pass off any reduction in cost to
consumers. And the administration itself
has acknowledged that gas could stay
above $4 a gallon for some months to
come as we've now seen retail gasoline
average prices rise above $1.50
a gallon more than it was before the war
started and is now sitting at an
all-time seasonal high, according to
AAA. That's, of course, adding to the
political pressure for this White House
to get a deal done amid these reports
that we could be making progress because
so far this administration has tried to
take actions to help curb prices for
consumers, including extending that
Jones Act waiver, getting higher ethanol
content gasoline on the market, but
still it is proving to be a political
issue. According to recent polling, we
are seeing that Americans are now
putting their higher concerns about
gasoline ahead of any of their
satisfaction when it comes to President
Trump's tax cuts under the one big
beautiful bill. Of course, a pillar that
Republicans are hoping to bank on. In
fact, John, a new poll out this morning
from Marist College finds that eight in
10 Americans say that higher gas prices
are now weighing on their household
budgets.
>> Things are starting to bite. How quickly
will they change? Tyler, thank you in
the nation's capital in Washington, D.C.
Stephen Schork of the Schork Group joins
us now for more. Stephen, welcome to the
program. You've read the news. You've
seen the headlines. Is it a
nothingburger or the real deal? Real
signs of progress?
>> Yeah,
I suppose it's progress, but we really
do have to take it into with a grain of
salt. Keeping in mind that the futures
market can reprice instantly. They can
reprice as fast as a trader can hit the
sell button on their keyboard. So, to
paraphrase Ronald Reagan, futures
markets trade on trust, the physical
market trades on verification. So, yes,
we do have this headline, but the
physical market has to see more than
just a social media post. So, vessels
that have been diverted away from the
Persian Gulf are going to remain
diverted. Refiners who are now buying
because we're entering the peak season,
buying crude oil, are going to continue
to buy at high prices. So, we are
looking at higher prices longer,
regardless of what we're seeing in the
futures market now. So, the the point
being here now is that yes, this is
potentially good news, but hey, we've
been down this road before. We've seen
these spikes both up and down in the
futures markets before, but what we're
seeing in the physical market, what
you're seeing in the spreads, whether
it's Dubai, Brent, Brent WTI, Brent
versus Houston, the physical market has
an extreme pull on on the market, and
prices are going to remain higher,
certainly as we kick off the summer
driving season.
>> Thank you for that dose of reality,
Stephen. When it comes to the
inventories globally, where are we? How
tight is this market?
>> Yeah, it's not Well, you know, it's
really interesting. So, it's not
necessarily about barrels per se or
supply, it's about logistics. So,
regardless of how much supply and we and
for instance, here in the United States,
we are at multi-year highs when it comes
to crude oil and this is what's
happening. The vessels are coming as the
president in your clip before said, "The
people are learning to buy US oil." This
is true. So, what happens? Empty vessels
are leaving lower inventory markets to
come to the United States to load up,
which leads under a lag time of longer
transit times, which will keep the
market short of oil. So, not necessarily
because of the supply, but it's because
of the vessel economics or the lack of
vessels. And this is where the market
has dodged a bullet up until this point.
That is to say, this conflict began back
in late February, early March, when
demand for crude oil is at its weakest.
Then we went through March, April, when
refineries are in their turnaround
season, their maintenance season. They
are buying fewer barrels of oil, getting
ready for the summer. Well, guess what?
The summer is here or it's about to be
here. Refiners are coming out of their
maintenance season. They have to buy
these barrels and therefore, that is
keeping the bid in the market. And that
is most likely kind of the impetus of
the White House to push this narrative
that we're a peace deal is almost a foot
because the hammer is about to hit the
market. The demand, the one variable
that's been missing from the market, has
now returned and it's going to return
with a vengeance in the weeks ahead.
>> Also, it comes as Jonathan has been
saying, US gasoline is above $4.50 a
gallon, the highest we've seen since
2022. Could we get to $5 in the next few
weeks?
>> Not likely. So, what we've seen here and
the Federal Reserve has a study that's
called rockets and feathers when it
comes to retail gasoline prices. When we
see a disruption in the flow of oil,
prices at the pump will take off like a
rocket. But then, when we see some sort
of resolution to whatever disruption it
is, prices fall back to earth like a
feather. So, there will be a lag. Now,
retail gasoline prices on average where
you're looking at the EIA or AAA, are
about $4.55
on a national average. They're going to
remain there for the next few weeks. Can
we get to $5? At this point, I do think
it is unlikely given where wholesale
gasoline prices are trading in the
United States. So, we if we are not at
the peak of retail gasoline prices
currently, we are going to near that
price. We're going to We're going to
near that level within the next few
weeks. But, that's not to say we're
going to see a continued pullback cuz
keep in mind, in 3 weeks, 4 weeks, it's
the Memorial Day holiday holiday. So,
now prices will begin to remain high.
So, that feather aspect will remain
high. Prospects of $5 gasoline looking
at 10 years worth of regression is very
limited up holes at this point.
>> Steven, it's good to see you. It's good
to hear from you. David Steven Schork
there of the Schork Group. The most
encouraging sign [music] out of all of
this reporting so far this morning. The
most difficult point to negotiate is
going to come later in the process and
that's around in their nuclear
ambitions.
>> People want to reopen the straits so we
don't have a Memorial Day Halloween
because that would be problematic, but
that is how commodity strategists
[music] could potentially see it.
>> What did Paul Donovan say? Sinking into
the abyss earlier, right?
>> Yeah, we're not doing that right now.
>> We'd like to avoid all those things.
>> Exactly.
>> Geetha Ranganathan joins us [music]
next.
>> [music]
>> Check it out. Big moves in crude. We're
down by more than 10% on Brent. Similar
move on WTI. WTI breaking 90
>> [music]
>> earlier in the session down by 11%
down by close to 11 on Brent crude. In
the bond market, yields [music] down
across the curve. Two's down by eight,
10's down by eight. The 10-year at 4:34.
Later on this morning, quarterly
refunding [music] coming in about 60
minutes time. Where on the curve will
the Treasury issue throughout the
quarter? That's an important topic of
conversation [music] not just for this
quarter but for the next several years
as well. Take that move in the bond
market for now. Look at the equity
market. Equity [music] futures up across
the board on the S&P higher by 1%
outperformance on small caps on the
Russell up by 1.9. Just a massive rally
this morning.
>> The people who have been worried
bless their hearts, but ultimately it
hasn't come to fruition, at least not in
markets. Even as they point to the
physical world, it hasn't come to
fruition. Earnings have been [music]
good. People point to the resilience of
the US economy, and people point to the
tech trade, and frankly you can feel
that people want to feel be optimistic
and buy. You just wonder Are there any
shorts left out there to potentially be
skeptical of some of what we're hearing?
There's plenty of skepticism among
analysts and among AnneMarie and among
commodity strategists, but do we see it
among market participants?
>> Was that sound soothing? [music] Just a
little bit.
>> 100%. Are you kidding? It's everything I
say.
>> It's a love when when the roles change
and I'm a little bit more pessimistic.
>> Projecting just a little bit, you know.
Projecting just a little bit. If you're
just joining us, welcome to the program.
I just want to give you an update on
[music] what we understand so far. This
has come with the team in Washington,
D.C. and from the whole of the Bloomberg
team worldwide working on this story at
the moment. So, as we understand, Iran
is evaluating a new proposal from the US
[music] to end the war.
Washington's one-page memorandum of
understanding, will if Iran accepts it,
lead to the gradual reopening of the
Strait of Hormuz and lifting of the
American [music] blockade on Iranian
ports. This all according to one pillar
person familiar with the matter.
Nothing has yet been agreed, and I think
it's important to keep [music] going
over on that point. Nothing has yet been
agreed, but the sticking point of all of
this
is nuclear and nuclear [music] ambitions
and the nuclear program. And as we
understand it, that would come later
in the process. And I think that point
is actually quite [music] important
because if you want to open the Strait
of Hormuz,
and you want to do the nuclear program
first, [music] it's unlikely that
straight is going to get opened anytime
soon because that program will take a
long, long time of negotiations, way
more
>> [music]
>> than 30 days.
>> We're talking months, maybe years in
terms of negotiating a real
comprehensive nuclear
>> [music]
>> agreement. I think it's important that
you continuously say, "Yes, this does
seem like, according to the Axios
reporting, the closest these two sides
have been
>> [music]
>> to maybe getting some sort of one-pager
memorandum of understanding to move
forward." This would feel like the very
beginning of the end of this conflict. I
wouldn't say crisis over.
>> Not yet, but getting closer. Up by 0.9%
on the S&P [music] 500. Some single
names this morning. Your morning movers,
Yih-Hah Hsu. Hi, Yih-Hah.
>> Hi, John. We are seeing AMD absolutely
ripping this morning, adding fuel to
what's been a blistering run for the
chip maker. Shares are up now more than
19% [music] in the pre-market after its
forecast blew past estimates due to data
center revenues [music] surging 57%
in While Nvidia still dominates when it
comes to AI chips, customers [music] are
increasingly looking for alternatives,
and that is clearly benefiting AMD.
Turning to earnings, we've gotten in a
string of [music] good reports, and we
start with Uber. Shares are soaring
nearly 10% in the pre-market after
bookings last quarter [music] expanded
at their fastest pace since 2022, and
the forecast for bookings also came in
better than expected. CVS is another one
delivering a beat and a raise. Shares
are up 5%. [music]
Strength at its Aetna insurance business
helped drive the beat with medical costs
coming in lower more [music] expected.
John.
>> Hi, Yih-Hah. Thank you. Thank you for
the update. On our radar this morning,
this is the top story. Iran evaluating a
new proposal from the United States to
end the 10-week war. According to a
one-page memorandum of understanding, if
Iran accepts it, it would lead to the
gradual reopening of the Strait of
Hormuz and the lifting of the American
blockade on Iranian ports. This is our
latest reporting this morning. Nothing
has yet been agreed to, but detailed
negotiations on Iran's nuclear program
will come later in the process. Axios,
of course, the first to report this
earlier on this morning. We'll keep
building that story for you. Elsewhere,
China's foreign minister, a meeting with
his Iranian counterpart in Beijing took
place today, pushing Tehran to continue
negotiating with the US for lasting
truce. President Trump is planning to
travel to China for a meeting with Xi
Jinping just next week. And finally, the
US ambassador to the EU saying
Washington will impose 25% tariffs on
cars and trucks from the block soon if
it doesn't swiftly ratify a long-delayed
trade deal. The EU arguing the move
would violate the originally agreed-upon
15% tariff ceiling. We'll catch up with
the trade ambassador, Ambassador Grier,
a little bit later this morning.
>> hearing from the president, and he was
the one before the weekend that came out
with his Truth Social post. I think this
administration just thinks that it's
moving too slowly in Europe. Europe is
trying to ratify this. They've added
amendments. So, obviously, this is going
to take a long time. Was that truth just
supposed to be a carrot to really try to
force them? Carrot and stick approach,
really that would have been the stick to
get them over the finish line? Or do
they actually want to open up this
portfolio once again and have this trade
agreement with the European Union? I
think this is just them trying to nudge
the Europeans along, but we'll see what
Ambassador Grier says.
>> It feels very emotional on the European
side when you look at some of the
rhetoric. The French trade minister
said, "We have a more difficult
environment now, unstable with
weaponization of mutual dependencies.
And so, we have to act accordingly."
There is a sort of a difficult tension
here between people wanting to get some
sort of deal done, 15% in terms of the
tariff on certain European goods in
order for removing tariffs on certain US
goods. They want to get it over the
finish line, but there is an emotional
desire to want to penalize the United
States for some of the actions that it's
taken and all of what's going on in Iran
has just added to that. You can feel
that really underpinning some of the
negotiations and reporting that's been
coming out.
>> really a long time ago, but really,
really amplified over in Davos,
Switzerland at the start of this year
when the president started going after
Greenland and there were some pretty
contentious headlines. And then Prime
Minister Carney of Canada talked about a
rupture. Macron laid it on thick as well
and things have never really been
settled since then. In fact, they've
just got worse since the end of
February, the start of March when this
war started.
>> Europe feels betrayed. Canada feels
betrayed because ultimately these were
alliances that they had relied upon and
they feel like there has been a breach
in behavior. The United States says,
"Well, there was a breach of behavior a
while back and we were being taken
advantage of for a long time." You've
got Europe and you've got Canada saying,
"How could you just totally do a 180 on
us?" My key question is who are the
allies and what determines who are
allies going forward given that there
has been some sort of breach in the
understanding at least so far.
>> In the next hour we'll catch up with
Ambassador Grace. Look out for that
conversation right here on Bloomberg TV.
Let's talk about the earnings. Lisa's
talked about it several times. Fantastic
numbers coming out of corporate America
including shares of Disney. They're
rising in the pre-market up by 4%. The
company reporting improved profitability
in its streaming business and saying
guests are spending more at its parks
and on cruises. Geetha Ranganathan of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Geetha, if people are worried
about crude and energy prices, we're
certainly not seeing it in these
numbers, are we?
>> No, we're not and this is what I think
investors were really worried about John
kind of coming up coming into this
quarter, you know, rising gas prices,
all of this geopolitical tension,
whether it would have a palpable impact
on theme park demand. And what we saw
Disney report for fiscal second quarter
was actually a 5% increase in operating
income. We were expecting only about 2%.
And this is despite a very very tough
economic backdrop. And the better news
is that they've pointed to strength and
a pickup in the third quarter and the
second half of the year. So, all in all,
a really strong report from Disney.
>> Gathers, do you think this is a Walt
Disney experience unique thing that
people just keep spending on? Or you
saying this across the sector?
>> I think a lot of it, John, is is the
Walt Disney experience. And we've seen
kind of this move towards this premium
towards getting this more premium
experience. And we saw that in the
numbers, too. So, if you just look at
visitation, visitation and attendance
has actually been a little bit soft,
especially from international visitors.
We've We've seen them kind of pull back
a little bit. But what we're really
seeing is strength in per capita
spending by guest, you know? And And
this is really what is driving revenue
and driving operating income. And a lot
of that is that premium experience
that, you know, people are so willing to
pay for the Disney brand.
>> How much is just more broadly are is
Disney seeing consumers accepting price
increases at its direct-to-consumer
outlets, its Disney Plus offering, as
well as at parks? I mean, beyond just
the premium offering.
>> We are seeing strong pricing power. And,
you know, we saw that in the streaming
product. So, really good streaming
growth. A lot of that is being driven by
their content. So, they pointed out
Zootopia 2, which has been huge for them
as a theatrical movie. And of course,
now doing really well on their streaming
plus on their Disney Plus streaming
platform.
And And really, if you kind of look at
Disney, they've been very very
aggressive in terms of price increases.
So, just over the past 4 years, uh
streaming prices have gone up 70 around
70%
and consumers have been willing to
absorb that. So, it so far it's been
working pretty well for Disney. Of
course, the one other thing that they
have in their favor uh is the bundle.
So, the Disney bundle, of course, if you
get the Disney Plus for the Hulu and the
ESPN, typically tends to be a a much
more uh compelling value proposition and
that has also definitely helped them.
>> How much, Geetha, is this a reflection
of the new CEO, Josh D'Amaro, who came
from the experiences, from the theme
parks, and uh and other activities
division, versus just a continuation of
what Bob Iger started?
>> Yeah, this was really a I would say a
big litmus test for Josh D'Amaro and I
think he came out really, really strong.
Uh so, a lot of the numbers that we're
seeing today in terms of the parks
numbers, those are a result of all the
investments and all of the planning and
all of the initiatives that were
undertaken when Josh D'Amaro was heading
the parks division. I think really what
investors want to see now uh is kind of
a more balanced narrative. So, we've
seen kind of the pendulum swing a little
bit from film, uh you know, from
streaming to to experiences,
which is, you know, the parks division
makes up about 60% of operating income.
But, as you have, you know, a tougher
and tougher economic backdrop, that you
know, this whole prospect of rising oil
prices, I think investors want to
balance out those risks a little bit
with more kind of uh energy in the
entertainment division. And that's
exactly what we see in this 3,000-word
letter that, you know, Josh D'Amaro
penned today. So, uh it's a little bit
of the continuation of the work that
both Bob Iger and Josh D'Amaro did, but
obviously a lot more work to be done in
terms of reinvigorating the content
engine, because at its heart, I mean,
Disney is one of the greatest
storytellers in the world.
>> So, what else could we see him do when
it comes to this content portfolio and
reinvigorating it?
>> Yes, so really what he's trying to do
now and uh you know, I think the
Bloomberg team broke a story a few a few
days ago is kind of creating this whole
super app. So you do have the Disney
Plus app, which is obviously the
streaming content, but are people is it
going to be a super app for all of
Disney content? So are you going to be
able to buy movie tickets? Are you going
to be able to buy theme park tickets,
merchandise, video games? That is really
what this new management team is looking
at for the future of Disney. Kind of
this one big super app.
>> Kaithan, I appreciate your time. Kaithan
Akana from that of Bloomberg
Intelligence breaking down the results
from Disney. The Walt Disney Company
trading in the pre-market higher by some
4%. Let's get you an update on news
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahaira Hasmar, hey
Yahaira.
>> Hey John.
Anthropic unveiling new AI agents
designed to handle financial services
tasks including drafting pitch decks and
reviewing financial statements. [music]
The new tools are aimed at professionals
across banking, insurance, asset
management and fintech.
Voters in Ohio backing J.D. Vance and
Vivek Ramaswamy's bid to be the
Republican nominee for governor. He'll
face Democrat [music] Amy Acton in
November to replace term-limited
Republican Governor Mike DeWine.
And Citadel CEO Ken Griffin saying he
plans to make the company's Miami tower
bigger after New York Mayor [music] Eric
Adams name-checked him in his pledge to
charge more taxes on second homes.
Griffin saying [music] Adams is making
it clear they
need to double down on their Miami bet.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Yahaira, thank you. Thank you very
much. Getting a response from the
President of the United States out on
social media just moments ago. He writes
the following. I'll share it with you
verbatim. Assuming Iran agrees to give
what has been agreed to, which is
perhaps a big assumption, the already
legendary [music] epic fury will be at
the end and the highly effective
blockade will allow the Hormuz Strait to
be open to all including Iran. If they
don't agree,
>> [music]
>> the bombing starts and it will be sadly
at a much higher level and intensity
than it was before. The President of the
United States just moments [music] ago.
>> So, he's giving that off-ramp talking
about everyone who needs to agree to
this that basically says the blockade
[music] would end allowing the Strait of
Hormuz to be open as well. But, if they
don't, it comes with a warning and the
President is basically saying I'm
prepared to go back to the military
option.
>> Crude down 10%, WTI 91, Brent crude 98.
Up next on the program, funding the AI
race.
>> These companies are using their balance
sheet capacity thoughtfully,
strategically, not all at once. Their
balance sheets are so low leveraged
[music] that they have capacity to add a
significant amount of debt.
>> They're spending a lot of money
and some companies like AMD are making a
lot of money. That stock is flying in
the pre-market. We'll catch up with Matt
Brill of Invesco. He joins us next.
Front and center, this is the headline
this morning, this move in crude, WTI
and Brent. WTI down by 10%, Brent down
by close to the same. It's a break of
triple digits. It's [music] 99.30
on Brent crude. The President just
moments ago saying this, assuming Iran
agrees to give what has been agreed to,
[music] which is perhaps a big
assumption, the already lodging the epic
fury will be at an end and the highly
effective blockade would allow the
Hormuz Strait to be [music] open to all
including Iran. If they don't agree, the
bombing starts and it will be sadly at
much higher level and intensity [music]
than it was before. The President of the
United States.
>> If we were on a different day, this
would dampen [music] some of the
enthusiasm out there. It isn't a done
deal yet. It still is in their hands.
Nonetheless, people are moving on.
People are saying, "Look, the fact that
people are even discussing uh some sort
of resolution here that there's been a
memorandum of understanding is enough
for us. A little bit of a fade after
that, but this is viewed as just an
effort to keep some leverage in the
discussion discussions around
negotiation.
>> Two things the president says here,
perhaps a biggest option. I would agree
that is a big assumption the Iranians
are ready to come to the table and agree
on all of the points [music] the
Americans are putting on this one page.
And also the president says the highly
effective blockade will allow the Hormuz
[music] Strait to be open to all.
Basically saying that the blockade and
US forces will remain in the region. Is
that going to be acceptable to this
regime to then not go after and contest
ships going through the Strait of
Hormuz?
>> Is this story not the only story driving
markets today? You'll see equity futures
up across the board. You'll notice small
caps are outperforming the Russell up by
around 2%. [music]
You'll also notice the really strong
performance still in big tech in America
with the Nasdaq higher by around
>> [music]
>> AMD in the premarket higher this morning
by close to 20% let's talk about tech.
Under surveillance this morning funding
the AI race.
>> These companies are using their balance
sheet capacity thoughtfully,
strategically, not all at once. We
already have an above consensus forecast
for US IG issuance of 2.1 trillion. That
would be a new record. Their balance
sheets are so low leveraged that they
have capacity to add a significant
amount of debt. Not all of that will
happen in the traditional US IG market
because investors will need to manage
those issuer concentration constraints.
>> Here's the latest this morning Alphabet
raising 17 billion dollars in its latest
AI funding push selling its biggest ever
euro denominated bonds and its first
Canadian dollar notes. Matt Brill of
Invesco saying Alphabet has diversified
the most away from the dollar among the
US hyperscalers in its push to fund AI
infrastructure. Matt joins us now for
more. Matt, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> How does it feel that debt investors are
funding these massive gains to the
equity market with AMD higher by 20% in
the premarket? That's not the first
question. We'll get to that in a moment.
This is the first question. You can
think about that one. Why are we issuing
in Canadian dollars in Europe? Why the
big push to diversify the currencies
that this debt is issued in?
>> So, I think the the simplest answer is
they need every dollar they can possibly
get. So, they've already tapped the US
market several times. Alphabet went to
Europe earlier in the year. They did a
100 year in Europe earlier in the year
in the UK, but they need more. And so,
they didn't want to come to the US
market this time and I think they're
going to save that for later if they
need it. But for now, it's almost like
going to the the couch cushions, you
know, the the Canadian market isn't that
big and to do 8 and 1/2 billion dollars
of Canadian dollars, that is an enormous
deal. It's the largest deal in history
over there.
>> So, now the AMD question. So, I'm
sitting in AMD stock just receiving all
the money. Thank you for the debt
investors who have been funding all of
this. What does the debt investor get
out of this?
>> So,
we get a higher premium than we've ever
gotten in tech before. So, these used to
be really tight trading names that
really didn't have a lot of spread to
them. They now have some yield to them.
But at the end of the day, the focal
point is whether or not the US IG market
or the global IG market can continue to
fund this cuz if this stops, then I do
think that the overall trade ends. But
for now, we continue to like this. We
are getting a little bit debt saturated,
debt fatigued, tech debt fatigued. But
overall, it's still these are great
companies that have really low levered
balance sheets.
>> How would Canadian's debt market feel
about being compared to the couch
cushions? You have to go there to find
some nickels under their couch cushions.
I'm just saying.
>> Let's hope Connie's not listening this
morning.
>> take some issue with that. To the point
though that you're saying we are getting
a bit saturated. At what point do you
actually expect to start seeing
meaningful pushback from investors cuz
so far, maybe some people say that
they're not that happy with it, but
they're buying in droves.
>> And what's interesting if you look at
like a name like Meta and Oracle,
they're actually telling you how often
they're going to issue. But they're
they're being truthful, but they're not
being truthful and I'll tell you why.
So, Oracle says we're not going to issue
anymore. They did 25 billion earlier
this year. But then they do this special
purpose vehicle that they called Project
Mitten which was the state of Michigan
looks like a mitten, so they did the
special purpose vehicle to look That's
$14 billion that's leased to them, but
it's not Oracle debt. Meta said we're
not going to come back for another
quarter at least when they did $25
billion last week, and then a few days
later, you guys report a headline that
project Sopapilla, which is El Paso data
center, will be coming leased to Meta,
and that might be $14 billion. So, they
keep telling you they're not going to be
borrowing cuz it's not actually
unsecured debt, but then they're doing
another deal. And we say, "Okay, we're
not going to buy any more, but then it
comes pretty cheap." And we say, "Well,
these are great companies. We do believe
they're going to be around. The
structure's sound, but you got to pay us
more." And so, that right now is it's
every time they're coming cheaper and
cheaper in order to incentivize us to
buy it.
>> At what point do you start to say, "You
have to pay us a lot more to not just go
into Treasuries and go into your stock"?
Because ultimately, there is potential
downside given the concentration risk at
a certain time, but the upside is just
getting paid back.
>> Correct. And that's the life of a credit
investor.
We don't have the upside that the equity
market has, so we do protect ourselves.
A lot of things that we're looking for
in these deals that the market is
pushing back on is asking for more
amortization, particularly if it's
something that's backed by chips. You
needed to amortize as fast as possible
to get your money off the table. You're
also seeing certain things like lease
clauses that we want to they have these
data centers actually built. Originally,
they were doing them and they were
projects, and they weren't even being
done. Now, we say the project needs to
be done. It needs to be in place with a
high-quality hyperscaler for a long
time, but when that lease rolls, we want
them to not have any debt outstanding,
so we don't have any take any any rent
roll risk on the tenant as well.
>> That's why I'm joking now. I'm sitting
in this stock just saying, "Thank you.
Thank you for funding all of this." I'm
high this morning by 18%.
>> Yeah, and you hear some investors who
aren't just focused on credit say, "Why
not just barbell it? Put some money in
Treasuries if you want the sort of
credit
component, and just buy the stock
because that's where the upside is." Of
course, potentially, there's also the
downside, and maybe you could also get
your money paid back. So, I'm going to
give you a pitch also for credit.
>> And Matt, I'm interested in the feedback
loop as well between market, the
spending market, the spending. Are we
just seeing that feedback loop continue?
Any breaks in that whatsoever? Are the
incentives just lining up for more of
the same in the year to come?
>> So,
two quarters ago, the incentive was to
tell everybody that you were adding to
capex, that you were going to do more,
and that's gone away because the debt
markets did push back. Particularly it
started with Oracle, where they said,
"Look, you looks like you're going to
keep borrowing a lot." And the stock
started going down, and I think it was
because the debt markets, credit default
swaps went wider, bonds cash spreads
went wider.
>> specifically, or we seeing some guard
rails around the whole sector now?
>> It was mainly Oracle, but I think
everybody gets a little bit nervous when
Amazon tells you that it's $200 billion.
Meta came out this time, they increased
it by 10 billion, and that wasn't a lot,
but their stock was immediately down. I
think a lot of it is because people are
saying, "We want to see where this is
paying for what you know, where the
results are going to where the cash flow
is going to come from." But the the
companies are saying this is too big of
an opportunity, we're not going to miss
it.
>> Matt, good to see you. Thank you, buddy.
Matt Brill there of Invesco. A lot of
companies feel that way, and a lot of
investors are supplying the funding for
them to continue.
>> I think I need to be broadening my
definition of couch cushions. I think I
need to start looking in different
places.
>> To be fair to Matt
>> [laughter]
>> in terms and relative to
>> 100%.
>> market
>> Right.
>> it's a little sofa.
>> At the same time, it highlights how even
a little sofa or smaller market would be
incredibly important to a company that's
looking for any financing that it
possibly can. I mean, there's this
incredible
irony here. Typically, you think of
companies that really need to finance
themselves as weak, and these are the
companies that are the biggest and the
boldest, and they need as much money,
they're hoovering up cash from
everywhere. It's just really Again,
people say that would be risky, but
they're not risky cuz they're minting
money.
>> I'm just thinking of the hierarchy of
spending right now. At the bottom, the
chip players are just receiving all the
money, right? And in between, you've got
the hyperscalers spending all the money
to build out this capacity. And the
pyramid gets narrower and narrower
because at the top, you've got these big
frontier models, the likes of Anthropic
and Open AI. They're the ones committing
to all the spend. [music]
How much can all of that continue? Do we
need to broaden the base out a little
bit more in the top?
>> And do we need [music] to monetize
beyond videos made on, you know,
different social media platforms marking
different environment news items?
>> That's what makes me a little bit
nervous [music] anyway.
>> Yeah, well, the monetization, that's the
key point.
>> Just how dependent we are on
the plans of just a couple of companies
and how much capacity we're building for
them.
>> The more you know.
>> Right. The next hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
>> It's not hard to really look at the
results we've seen and be that surprised
that the markets continue to rally.
>> I would not be outright short risk. Like
I said, the weight of earnings is still
too strong.
>> For now, earnings and CapEx are really
driving this market.
>> AI and that trade maybe continues to
drive the market.
>> Right now, we're anticipating about a
mid-single-digit climb for the S&P 500
from here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> On behalf of everyone at Bloomberg
Surveillance, I'd just like to apologize
for Matt Rose's words and language
towards the Canadians. And Canadians and
[music] market.
>> I don't know that people are going to be
that offended. One Canadian wrote in and
said as long as it's known that they're
comfy and friendly couch cushions, we're
okay with that analogy. Let me tell you,
those And look, it's not true. There
it's a decent robust market that a lot
of people are looking to tap.
>> see so much issuance there
relative to what we see in the United
States. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning to
you all. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Your
price action looks like this. This move
in crude dominating the headlines this
morning, down by close to 10% off the
lows. We did see a break of triple
digits on Brent, a break of 90 on WTI
earlier on the session. That unleashed
this move, contributed to much higher
equity markets this morning. Equity
futures up by 0.8%. The Russell up by
1.7. We heard from the president about
10 minutes ago, 15 minutes ago. Assuming
Iran agrees to give what has been agreed
to, which is perhaps a big assumption,
[music] the already legendary epic fury
will be at an end and the highly
effective blockade will allow the Hormuz
Strait to be open to all, including
Iran. If they don't agree, the bombing
starts and it will be sadly at a much
higher level and intensity than [music]
it was before.
>> This market is taking the easing in
rhetoric, not necessarily the stick at
the end. And that I think is notable.
You did see some of the risk appetite
fade just a touch on the margins after
this social media post. At the same
time, you still are seeing the declines
in oil prices, the gains in equities,
which gives a sense that even the talks
about talks is enough to unleash
optimism in a market that wants to rip.
>> Yeah, the headline how to unleash that
optimism earlier on this morning. The
detail is still nuanced. A 30-day period
of very contentious negotiations. I have
to say [music] that word contentious
because they would be. There'll be
nothing easy about this period of talks
if they're agreed to.
>> Of course, it will be contentious. And
what did we see all of last year?
Negotiations happen and [music] then not
get to a point that that they were able
to agree to something and that that's
what started Operation Epic Fury in
February. So, clearly this is going to
be incredibly hard, especially since the
regime has now been hardened given the
fact that it's [music] been changed
within because of all the assassinations
from the Israeli strikes. This is going
to be incredibly challenging. What all
the news though says to me today is the
president is ready to walk away though
[music] in a sense. He's ready to wash
his hands for this. He's looking down at
the midterm elections. The issue is are
the Iranians going to meet him halfway?
>> Futures right now in the equity market
just fighting a touch, still positive by
0.8%.
Coming up this hour, Barbara Ryan Hardt
of Voyer Management with stocks adding
to all-time highs. The Ferguson CEO,
Kevin Murphy, on leveraging the American
CapEx boom. And the US trade
representative, Jamieson Career, on the
tariff standoff with the European Union.
We begin this hour with stocks rising
and crude falling as the US and Iran are
closing in on a peace deal. Barbara
Rinehart of Voyer Investment Management
writing, "We are positioned to be
overweight equities even with the
uncertainty of the Iran war. Both
corporate guidance and analyst EPS
revisions have signaled confidence in
the forward outlook." Barbara joined us
now for more. Barbara, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We start the program with Max Kettner
over at HSBC and asked him, "Do you
believe that ending this war is a
prerequisite for further gains?" And he
said, "No." Do you agree?
>> I'd have to agree with it. You have a
lot of supports to the equity market.
So, number one is that sentiment got
very oversold in late March of this
year. So, it's kind of the rubber band
was pulled back for people to start
piling into the market. Secondly, you've
had very good corporate earnings and
good forward-looking guidance. And then
lastly, something that not many people
talk about are the buybacks. You've had
422 billion in executed buybacks in the
first quarter of this year. And then you
have another authorization for 600
billion, which would be one of the best
years for corporate buybacks yet.
>> Which is why we've seen a massive bounce
off the low at the end of March, a
massive rally. How great is the investor
participation been in that rally?
>> I think that there were some people that
sold equities going into the Iraq war or
Iran war, excuse me, thinking that it
was going to be a long protracted
uh you know, military conflict that oil
was going to spike. It could have all
types of problems for consumers with
high prices at the gasoline pump.
However, I would say for people that
were smart enough, they said, "Look,
we're going to look through it. We know
that the cure for higher higher oil oil
prices is always higher oil prices,
right?" Oil follows this boom-bust
cycle. And if you knew your kind of
history of the markets and how military
conflicts
resolve themselves, you'd be have been
to say we're going to be able to
withstand it and we're going to invest
through it. Some people did have the
opportunities to start adding back to
equities in early April.
But I think they haven't necessarily
been adding in the places where there
was the best opportunities at for
emerging markets has been unloved,
under-owned, under-appreciated.
EM ex-China is up over 18% if you
include China, it's up over 14%. Those
are gains that are considerably better
than other parts of the market like
Europe.
>> Those gains are also tied to things like
the KOSPI, which is up some 70% so far
this year, I believe. And that's on the
heels of Samsung and a couple of other
players that are highly dependent on the
chip cycle and on this AI boom that
we're seeing across capital markets. One
of Max Kettner's points was that this
equity market is not tied to the
economic cycle nearly as much as it has
has been historically. How much is that
a factor in your assertion?
>> Well, I think you have to divorce two
things, right? The economy is not the is
not the equity market, right? So, the
economy has really been driven 70% by
consumer spending. The
equity market is being driven by
corporate earnings. And everything that
you're seeing out of corporate earnings
this quarter has been relatively strong
and the forward-looking guidance is very
very good as well. So, I think you have
to think about these things as as two
pieces. Of course, you do worry
sustainably high oil prices when they're
up when they go up 100% over a 12-month
time period and stay sustainably there.
That's when the economy starts to
weaken, but you saw great data yesterday
out of the JOLTS report. So, JOLTS told
you yesterday that while we're still in
this low hiring, low firing regime,
you're starting to see some
stabilization for labor demand coming
in. And that's companies being able to
say we're looking past the Iran war and
we're going to continue in terms of
seeing strength in spending, strength in
consumer spending,
and then also strength in the build-out
of technology and very good high free
cash flow from corporations really
around the globe. So, I think there's a
lot of support and also remember while
the Cosby and Taiwan semi they're huge
this year, remember they went through a
period from November through February of
this year where they were really on the
on their backs for a while. Remember we
were in this very
kind of
um
big industrial kind of super cycle where
investors were going to buy the the
junky stuff off of the bottom and tech
got left behind. So, I think that was
part of the reason that technology has
moved so far and so fast off of the
bottom.
>> I want to pick up on the jobs point
given that we're going to get ADP data
in just a couple minutes and we're going
to be getting the jobs report on Friday.
What's the market's reaction to a hot
labor market print based on what that
does for the Fed but also the potential
impulse to the cyclical recovery?
>> Sure. Well, look, remember bond yields
have been tied to oil prices, right? So,
bond yields kind of went up when oil
prices went up. Now that we have a
potential resolution on the Iran war and
I would note at the margin having a
one-page memorandum is a big improvement
over having a 17-point peace plan which
was the last round. So, they're trying
to make it easier to get to a
resolution.
I think when bond yields come down and
our team's done a lot of work on this,
we see is when bond yields come down
oil prices are going to be
the driving factor to it. If you have a
strong labor market print on Friday,
it's likely just to mean that you're
seeing stabilization and that probably
gives a little bit more wherewithal for
the Fed to even stay on hold
and not have to worry about raising
interest rates as a result of rising
inflation and I think maybe even gives
them an opportunity so that where they
can say
you know, look, we can probably cut
rates maybe once maybe later on this
year.
>> Even if there's a one-page memorandum
though, we actually have to start to see
streets move through the straight of her
moves and what the Iranians are talking
about is a new protocol they have that
the United States is not going to find
acceptable no other Gulf country.
Doesn't it feel like we are still in
status quo even if the words sound good?
>> Well, I think you have to look for the
fundamental change at the margin.
Remember, peace talks are always very
nuanced in gen- you know, very nuanced
and I think that you're starting to see
at least at the margin less demands
being put on getting to some type of an
accord or an agreement and uh that's
usually what kind of investors look for
in terms of being able to position for a
recovery. That's why the March lows were
so important. It was done off of we're
probably at the peak and there's going
to be, you know, less escalation from
here.
>> How much more bullish would you be if
the Iran war didn't happen?
>> The Iran war's always been in the
background for us. The big thing for us
has always been corporate earnings and
also been has been fundamentals and the
US consumer. That's always been the big
piece for us.
>> Barbara, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Barbara Ryan at Affoya
Investment Management. If you're just
joining us, welcome to the program. Big
moves cross asset earlier on this
morning. Some headlines dropping
encouraging the idea that we're close to
a diplomatic breakthrough between the US
and Iran. That hit crude pretty hard.
Brent and WTI sinking by more than 10%
briefly. A break of triple digits on
Brent, a break of 90 on WTI. Helping
equity markets absolutely fly with
equity futures up around 1% on the S&P
500. Names like AMD though, we have to
keep going back to this. AMD higher in
the pre-market by 17%.
The chip rally continues. Lisa, there
must be a massive itch right now to buy
the rest of the market away from what's
already done so well. I saw a note from
Goldman, a quote from Ben Snyder looking
at the S&P 500 at record highs and a
median stock in the index still about
13% below respective highs. One of the
biggest gaps, the widest gaps we've seen
in about 25 years. That's like a coiled
spring for people waiting for this story
to go away and buy everything else.
>> Especially since it ultimately will
become the adapters who should be
benefiting. We were talking earlier
about how you need to see the uh the
cost saving or at least just the income
perspective tied to the AI story and
that's going to come from all of the
companies that are going to be creating
more efficiencies. Not to mention those
that can just capitalize on this
incredible CapEx boom. That's the reason
why people really are looking at the
earnings of places like Disney, of CVS
beating expectations. Even CVS was
beating expectations this morning and
saying, all right, maybe the consumer is
doing just fine.
>> Better than good at the moment, that's
for sure. Equity features on the S&P 500
higher with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hi, Yahara.
>> Hi, John.
President Trump warning Iran that
bombing will resume if they don't agree
to the latest US terms for a peace deal.
Trump saying the attacks would be at a
much [music] higher level and intensity
than before.
The president's also posting with an
update on his plans for a White [music]
House ballroom. Trump saying the
ballroom is around twice the size of the
original proposal. It is estimated to
cost under $400 million,
>> [music]
>> and ahead of schedule.
And Microsoft may ditch one of the
industry's most ambitious [music] clean
energy targets in an effort to speed up
data center construction. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the company
could delay or abandon its 2030 target
of matching 100% of its hourly
electricity use with renewable energy
purchases. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Yahara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next on the program the morning calls
plus the Ferguson CEO Kevin Murphy on
leveraging the American CapEx boom.
Looking forward to that conversation in
just a moment. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Here's the bull case, right? That we get
some sort of resolution between the US
and Iran. Uh the worst Fed can say,
"Hey, this is a supply shock. We can
look through it." [music] And suddenly,
small caps begin to work. Small caps
begin to work. The consumer begins to
work. And then, the economy begins to
accelerate. And we can start talking
about the housing market getting
involved.
>> That's the optimistic outlook. That's
the optimistic outlook. That's Chris
Harvey of CIBC. It's not exactly [music]
the outlook he believes in. He thinks
maybe you should fade this move in small
caps. We're not there yet. We don't see
those things at the moment.
>> Potentially, the reality could come
back. And all of a sudden, commodity
strategists will come out and say, "This
is what I've been telling you all this
time. Ships aren't going through the
Strait of Hormuz. There still are
physical shortages." At the same time,
but right now, have a wonderful morning
cuz right now it seems like everything
seems to be working.
>> Stocks are up, but fading a touch. We're
higher by 0.6% [music] on the S&P 500.
Crude is lower, but not down as much as
it was. Brent NWCI, Brent crude down by
about 7% this morning. Likewise, on WTI
crude, 94 on WTI Brent crude at 102.
Some data crossing just moments ago. The
latest ADP report. Let's get those
numbers with Mike McKee. Good morning,
Mike.
>> Good morning, John. The numbers are
good, but not as good as anticipated.
109,000 private sector jobs created in
the month of April, according to ADP.
That is lower than the 120,000
that economists had expected. We see
15,000 jobs created under the
goods-producing categories, including
10,000 in construction and 2,000 in
manufacturing. Service-providing, 94,000
jobs. Education and health services, as
always, the leader. 61,000.
Leisure and hospitality, 4,000. Trade,
transportation, and utilities, 25,000.
Now,
what we're going to have to see is, of
course, what happens on Friday because
last month ADP found 61,000 private
sector jobs and the Bureau of Labor
Statistics found 186,000
private sector jobs. So, if this is an
indication that
the Labor Department is going to
over-perform, then that will be good
news, but we'll have to see if that's
correct. One other thing, median change
in annual pay, job stayers 4.4% and job
changers 6.6%. Remember in the JOLTS
data for March, we saw the quits rate
tick up a little bit to 2% from 1.9.
>> Michael McKee, thank you, sir. Mike's
going to be back with us in about 15
minutes time. We're going to break down
that quarterly refunding announcement
from the Treasury in just a moment. Also
getting these headlines from the
president in a short interview with the
New York Post. Some headlines coming
from that. The president saying it's too
soon to prep for the Iran peace signing.
That from the president. I have to say,
out of everyone, the president's the
more cautious
>> Yes.
>> compared to say the moves we've seen in
this market earlier on this morning.
>> Yeah, which I mean, I will have some
psychologists come and and understand a
little bit better than I. What I find
notable is that the market is taking the
more optimistic tone and running with
that and not necessarily seeing this as
dampening its party as it looks to a
potential peace signing. At least the
idea of talks about talks is better than
some sort of hot war.
>> And that's that future still elevated
off the back of some of the big moves
we're seeing at the single name level.
Let's get you some more, Nicole, with
that one stock in focus, it's AMD. Your
first call from Goldman [music]
upgrading the stock to buy following its
earnings. They expecting it to be a
beneficiary of a gen tech AI expansion.
[music] The second call from Bernstein
upgrading the stock to outperform seeing
shares moving higher even after the
recent run. [music] And finally, Bank of
America raising its price target to 450
saying the company is well aligned with
the evolving AI market. The stock is up
by 17% this morning. As big tech then
doubles down on AI, the Ferguson
company, a plumbing and HVAC [music]
distributor, is set to benefit from the
capex boom and the build out of data
centers. In the company's latest
earnings report, the CEO Kevin Murphy
writing, quote, we expect to continue to
outperform the market while leveraging
the long-term growth drivers of water
infrastructure and large capital
projects. I'm pleased to say that Kevin
joins us now for more. Kevin, welcome to
the program. Thanks for making some time
for us. Some big numbers and big
spending we're seeing from some big
companies in this country. Kevin, how
have you positioned the company to take
advantage of that?
>> Yeah, thank you, Jonathan. Great to be
with you. And we've positioned the
company to be roughly half residential,
half non-residential. About 2/3
break-fix repair remodel, 1/3 new
construction. But when you look at where
today's tailwinds are, and you
highlighted it, water infrastructure,
but also large capital new construction
projects. And so, for us, across
industrial, commercial mechanical
construction, water infrastructure,
large projects like data centers,
energy, and again, water treatment, are
huge drivers for us. And it's really the
driver of our results this past quarter.
>> Kevin, so many companies are telling us
that their so-called supply constrained.
All the demand is there, they just can't
meet it. It's a struggle. Are you
experiencing the same thing?
>> We have, but that's where scale with
best local really starts to advantage
us. We source from over 30 countries.
We've got over, you know, we got
thousands of suppliers where we're
bringing product into local markets. And
so, we're able to get the right product
at the right time at the right place for
the contractor. And that's some of the
biggest drivers of our value inside that
large capital construction tailwind. And
when you look at those supply chain
challenges, we're also able to help the
contractor, help the engineer understand
what product solutions are available to
them, and make changes for value
engineering to get that job done on
time.
>> Ferguson,
Kevin, excuse me. How much are you
seeing a difficulty hiring people given
the fact that when I try to find an HVAC
mechanic or a good plumber, forget about
it. And they can charge whatever they
want because there aren't any available.
I mean, how difficult is it to get
staff?
>> That's our core customer. If you look at
the HVAC technician, the plumbing
contractor, the mechanical contractor,
the underground utility contractor,
that's who we serve every day. And our
associates wake up every day trying to
make sure that they're more productive
at what they do. If we can help them get
their job done faster and on time, we
can make sure that we earn market share
gains and also margin expansion. And so,
when you look at that trade
professional, there are more retiring
today than are entering the workforce.
And quite frankly, we need to have more
kitchen table conversations where
parents are talking with their children
about a career in the trades.
That's what it's going to take to keep
this construction boom moving.
>> I agree with you, Kevin. We have a
discussion every night about being a
plumber because let me tell you, they're
making a lot of money. I'm just
wondering though what it takes going
forward to change the idea of what work
looks like, right? I mean, we had this
huge shift from blue collar to white
collar. We now might might see a
reversal of that in some capacity. How
prepared are we to really facilitate
that?
>> We're finally starting to see some
momentum in that regard, especially as
you think about artificial intelligence
and pressures on the job market. But for
years, we've been talking about it's a
fantastic way to not only earn a living
and raise a family, but also to be an
entrepreneur and start a business. And
so, we think that that momentum is
starting to happen, but people need to
realize these are durable jobs in
building America, and we believe it's a
great way again to start a career and to
become an entrepreneur.
>> Kevin, when it comes to input costs,
have you seen them rise because of what
has gone on in the past year and a half
between tariffs coming on, tariffs
coming off, and at the same time also
just commodities rising and higher
prices because of what is going on in
the conflict in the Middle East.
>> We have and we have most of our In fact,
the vast majority of our sourcing comes
from branded US suppliers and the price
increases that we've seen over the past
year have been driven by a variety of
things, not the least of which is
tariff,
but also in overall supply chain and
overall supply chain challenges. When
you look at our commodity business,
about 15% of our revenue is what we
would call commodity based. Steel pipe,
copper tube, plastic pipe. What we've
seen is those move in different
directions at different velocities.
Copper, steel moving in an upward
direction, but PVC until recently has
been in deflation. We think that starts
to change now as you think about some of
the geopolitical pressures that are out
there and what's happening in the oil
markets. And so we believe that we'll
see PVC begin to step up and then we
also see that overall commodity basket
inching up. We looked at low single
digit inflation for calendar year '26.
We think that edges up just a bit with
the current position that we're in.
>> Has it been much harder to secure some
of the American-made products though
because of, you know, the tariff
headlines coming out of this White House
and the walls going up for outside
suppliers?
>> Again, there are some pressure points,
especially in those rapidly growing
areas like data center construction,
power generation, onshoring, reshoring
of manufacturing, even pharma and GLP-1
production. And so some of those areas
like steel pipe, weld fittings, and
flanges have had some degree of supply
chain challenges. But again, that's
where our company has been quite strong
in bringing good sourcing capabilities,
good global sourcing capabilities, and
making sure that we can offer
alternatives to our customer and a great
supply chain with over 1,800 locations
and 5,900 trucks that can make sure that
those products are delivered on site
when and where they need them. And
additionally, we're doing good
fabrication and valve and automation
work to make sure that we can add
productivity to what their jobs are are
doing.
>> Hey Kevin, I just want to squeeze this
in and finish where we started. The
waiting between residential and
non-residential. Is there a preference
to keep it equal weighted or leaning to
one versus the other?
>> The balance really serves us well,
Jonathan, and it has served us well over
the past, call it, 7 to 10 years.
Um that'll change as the market changes.
You know, right now we have residential
pressure both in new construction, but
also in existing home turnover, which is
a real driver for remodel activity. So,
we'll see that change, but that balance
is pretty healthy for us and makes us
very resilient over time.
>> Kevin, appreciate it. It's great to
catch up with you. Let's continue the
dialogue for the year ahead. Some big
changes in this country. The Ferguson
CEO, Kevin Murphy there on leveraging
the capex boom in America. A massive
boom.
>> You know, if you are a plumber or an
HVAC technician, you can make 100 to
200,000 dollars if you're in a place
like New York City. And all of a sudden,
people who previously thought about
going and sitting in an office are
thinking, "Wait a second. [music] I can
go fix someone's HVAC and earn the same
thing."
>> what happens 5 years down the line?
>> Yeah, well.
>> Got a lot of plumbers.
>> And well, you know, but it's you
>> Or HVAC robots.
>> It's going to be loud.
>> That took a turn.
>> It's like grandma.
Goodness me. All right. Up next on the
program, the US Trade Representative,
Jamie Dimon Correa on the tariff
standoff with the European Union. That
conversation
>> [music]
>> just around the corner.
It's at the US and Iran, according to
reports throughout this morning, close
to signing a memorandum of understanding
to begin a period of 30-day talks to end
the blockade, reopen the Strait of
Hormuz, and eventually negotiate around
the nuclear program in Iran. The
president saying that if that isn't
signed, the bombing will restart. And
the president also saying in an
interview with the New York Post a
little bit earlier this morning that
it's too soon to prep for a peace
signing with Iran. And that it's too
soon for face-to-face talks as well.
>> It seems as though he's actually talking
it down. The market is still saying it
still is a positive step that there are
even discussions about talks.
Nonetheless, it is notable that he's the
one that's saying, "Just hold on a
second. We're not exactly uh smoking a
peace pipe over here."
>> So, the gains fade just a touch on the
S&P 500 by 0.8%. I want to make a joke,
but I'm not going to.
>> [laughter]
>> Me, too.
>> The NASDAQ up by 1.3% and the Russell
were up by 1.3 as well. In the commodity
market, Brent crude and WTI down, but
not down as much as they were. We were
down by more than 10% earlier. Brent
crude at 102, WTI 94. And just to finish
in the bond market, yields are lower
across the curve. Just as we get these
headlines from the Treasury, the
quarterly refunding statement dropping,
the headlines dropping as well. Mike
McKee has got those details for us right
now. Morning, Mike.
>> Good morning again. No surprises in the
Treasury auction announcements. They had
told us that they were going to be able
to meet the debt needs of the country
without changing auction sizes, so they
haven't. The US is going to refund $125
billion
in the quarter. The breakdown is
25 billion for 30-year bonds, 42 billion
for 10-year notes, and 58 billion for
3-year notes. And these will all start
their auction process next week. It is
too early for major changes, but we do
know that we're going to have a bigger
debt coming with the additional money
that the president wants to spend on
defense. And also, the question is,
how is Treasury and Fed going to work
together on any of this stuff, which is
what Kevin Warsh she should happen. We
won't know that for a while until he
takes office and gets a chance to sit
down with Scott Bessent and figure out
if there's any kind of agreement they
should make.
>> Mike language is important and on the
language from the Treasury we've been
told repeatedly the increases in note
and bond issuance won't be expected for
quote at least the next several
quarters. Is that language changed at
all this morning?
>> Not changing yet.
We would expect it maybe in the next
quarter or two but for right now
we're going to be
at about the same through the fiscal
year which will end September 30th.
>> Mike McKee, thank you sir. T-bill is
doing a lot of the heavy lifting for
bond issuance, for debt issuance in this
country.
>> Yeah, significantly a higher proportion
of three-year notes 58 billion versus
the 25 billion dollars of 30-year bonds
set to be auctioned. Also notable the
total size 125 billion dollars is less
than what's expected to be needed,
right? So there still is a question of
how you are going to keep financing a
bigger bill especially based on some of
the discussion around tax refunds
without using the coupon market. How
much is going to go to say 12-month
T-bills and potentially 6-month T-bills
and just be rolled over.
>> 10s this morning 4:35 yields down by
seven basis points. That move unlocked
by the much bigger move in crude. 30s
were north of 5% earlier this week, the
highest close we've seen since last
July. South of 5% this morning down
another five basis points at 4.93.
Let's talk about trade. The EU pushing
Washington to finalize a tariff deal by
July as President Donald Trump threatens
a 25% levy on European autos. The US
trade representative Jamison Greer
meeting with G7 officials this week in
Paris and I'm pleased to say that
Ambassador Greer is making some time for
us this morning. Ambassador Greer,
welcome back to this program, sir. Can
we just start off by getting your
assessment of the current
characterization of talks between the EU
and the US? What is the current state of
things?
>> So I've spent a lot of time over the
weekend and here while I've been in
Paris speaking to my counterparts of the
European Commission and my counterparts
of member states about this issue. Just
to go back in time a little bit to last
summer when we concluded the turn berry
agreement, which was an initial
framework. The United States immediately
set to work modifying its tariff rates
to meet the agreement that we made. The
EU has had a lot of time, many, many
months to comply with their tariff
commitments and their commitments on
non-tariff barriers. And that hasn't
materialized yet. I think that the minds
are focused in the EU and in Europe, I
think is probably the best way to to
describe it right now. They're focused
on what next steps are and how they
might come into compliance.
>> Well, what are the next steps? Of
course, the Europeans have a process.
It's guided by their parliament. What's
the exact ask of the United States?
>> So, the ask, if you go back to August,
we have a written piece of paper, a
joint statement with the Europeans, and
our ask is that Europe fulfill those
obligations they committed to. The
United States complied with its tariff
obligations for many, many months. The
Europeans have agreed to remove their
tariffs on industrial goods. They've
agreed to give duty-free quotas to key
agricultural products coming from the
United States. They've agreed to provide
flexibilities for the United States on
many of the regulatory matters that the
European Union seems to specialize.
Things related to methane content in in
LNG, things about deforestation
regulations, things about the carbon
border adjustment mechanism. So, we
expect the European Union to keep its
part of the deal, which includes
flexibilities on those types of things,
as well as the tariff things. And with
the US, our part of the deal is to
align our our new tariff structure with
what we committed to.
>> And if they don't come into an agreement
by when is the question? Then would the
president potentially escalate to the
25% auto level?
>> Right now, the United States has a 10%
tariff on the world, generally speaking.
It has
25% on autos are from around the world.
Europe has had it at only 15% this whole
time. We have tariffs on steel and
aluminum.
We have other investigations ongoing
which may or may not result in tariffs
depending on the outcome.
The idea would be can can Europe come
into compliance?
I'm not setting a hard date on this. My
view is it's already past due, frankly.
This is part of the reason why the
president has come out and said if the
if the Europeans aren't going to be
complying with this deal right now, I
mean
why should we be complying with all of
it? All that being said, the autos is
just one element. There are other
elements to the deal
where the United States remains in full
compliance in contrast to where the
Europeans have been for many months.
>> It's just that your colleague, the
ambassador to Europe, told us earlier
they would need to see movement
relatively soon and basically said that
July would be too late. We're now in
May. So basically, do you need to see
something between the next few weeks for
the president not to act?
>> Well, what I would say is right now this
afternoon I was meeting with my
colleague, Commissioner Maroš Šefčovič,
the trade commissioner in the European
Union.
And he he left the G7 at an appropriate
time to go have the what they call the
trilogue process between the European
Parliament, Council, and Commission
where they go over the tariff bill
that's being debated. That tariff bill
in the European Parliament, it also has
a lot of amendments attached to it that
we didn't agree to with the European
Union.
Amendments that could limit the relief,
limit the benefit of the agreement,
place limits on US exports
to
to Europe under a preferential trade
agreement. So some of those amendments
need to be resolved as well. It's not
just about passing the bill, it's about
making sure the bill reflects what we
agreed last summer with the Europeans.
>> Ambassador Lighthizer, I know for you
the focus is going to change to what's
going on in China because the president
will be going there next week. Beijing
is basically refusing to comply with US
sanctions. I'm sure you've seen the
reporting that they're telling some
firms, uh some refiners that they don't
need to comply when it comes to imports
of Iranian crude. How big of
uh an agenda item is this going to be
when the president sits down with Xi
Jinping?
>> Obviously, it's something we're going to
have to discuss.
Uh Iran is the world's largest state
sponsor of terrorism, and anyone who's
buying oil from Iran is contributing to
that. Uh and so when the Treasury takes
uh a step similar to steps it's taken
many times over decades with respect to
uh oil refiners who are dealing with
Iran, and you have a country that
refuses to comply or directs
non-compliance, that's going to have to
be a discussion item. Uh we certainly
have had it raised at the uh you know,
staff level between China and the United
States.
I would say we're looking for stability
with China. We don't want this to be
something that derails the broader
um the broader relationship or any
agreements that might come out of our
meeting in Beijing, uh but it's
certainly something that may come up.
>> What more could be done besides
secondary sanctions imposed potentially
on Chinese banks? I mean, yesterday the
president also said even though China is
doing this, the president said that Xi
Jinping has been very respectful of him.
This doesn't seem respectful of the
United States and our rules.
>> Remember, uh China and every country, uh
you know, they they're they're going to
undertake uh domestically the laws and
regulations they think they need to do.
Uh sometimes they'll be in conflict with
ours, and we're going to expect some
kind of resolution.
Um at the same time, we have the
European European Union for years has
had a blocking statute against complying
with our sanctions on Cuba. Uh so, what
China's doing is is serious. We take it
very seriously, but again, for us it's
not something where we're going to let
that become the only thing we talk about
in the relationship. We have a lot of
things we have to cover. Uh that will be
addressed, but then we'll address other
issues related to trade uh and and
geopolitics and foreign policy and
everything that comes with the
relationship between two of the most
important countries in the world.
>> Ambassador Greer, there's a real
question about alliances here and the
way that the United States and Europe
have been discussing and the tensions
that have been emerging versus the
rhetoric that's been surrounding the US
and the China meeting that is planned
for next week. Do you see the US
alliances as shifting as some of these
negotiations take place or are these
negotiations independent of any kind of
traditional alliances that the United
States has had?
>> So,
I think [clears throat] that's a that's
a that's a good question because it puts
into context everything that we're doing
and I think you have to look a little
bit at history. People think about our
alliance system as something that is set
in stone, never had issues, have always
been perfect and never never been
problems. That's just not true. I'm
sitting here in Paris in a place where
you know, decades ago Charles de Gaulle
essentially pulled France out of the
military structure of NATO and sought to
have its own independent nuclear program
which which in retrospect, you know,
maybe maybe de Gaulle was right. So, you
know, we have a long history of having a
back-and-forth between the US and its
closest partners as we try to find the
right balance between
international cooperation and alliances
and what we need for our sovereign
right. When it comes to trade, the
United States, we have to
re-industrialize. We have to reduce our
trade deficit. We have to get real wages
up. We have to have manufacturing as as
a bigger portion of our economy. That
necessarily means that we need to fix
the terms of trade with other trading
partners, friend or foe. And that means
we have to have hard conversations with
the Europeans who by the way have the
largest trade surplus in the world with
the US right now. It's no longer China
as of last year.
Uh
With the United States, I don't think
we're going to let that get in the way
of whatever military cooperation we want
to have with the Europeans. If if other
countries want trade to get in the way
of that kind of cooperation. That's up
up to them, but there there's a long
history of having economic differences
and and challenges and resolutions and
disputes, etc. And siloing that off from
military and security questions.
Sometimes they get mixed, sometimes they
stay apart.
>> Ambassador Kreier, it seems like
European representatives feel a little
bit differently. The French trade
minister said that it seems like there's
a weaponization of mutual dependencies
and that type of action is causing some
real rethinking on their side. How do
you address things like that commentary
with some of your counterparts that
we're seeing and hearing?
>> So, I you know, I I I saw that language
today, but it was with respect to and
and maybe maybe we we have a different
understanding. We put out a G7 statement
that talks about that, but it's really
about China weaponizing critical
minerals. An area where France, the rest
of Europe, and the United States are
quite aligned on the way forward and how
we shouldn't allow basic commodities to
be weaponized. You know, the United
States is not in the business of cutting
off commodities. We've been exporting
oil during this whole Iran operation.
You know, China's the country that's
been cutting off and limiting access to
critical minerals and that's why we're
cooperating with Europe on projects for
critical minerals, on downstream
processing, on manufacturing. That's why
we're talking about having a
plurilateral trade agreement on trade in
critical minerals with Europe, with
Japan, and others. So, there are areas
of a lot of collaboration and
cooperation as we enter into a period of
geoeconomic uncertainty.
>> Ambassador, that's an interesting point
because for a long time the Europeans
have just sat on the fence. They've
wanted the security umbrella of the
United States, but also wanted the
economic benefits of having a close
relationship with the Chinese. Do you
think that's changed?
>> I think that every I think that every
country is going to pursue their trading
relationships in the way they they think
is best.
China is a great example. We're always
going to trade with China. The Europeans
are always going to trade with China.
Europeans, Germany in particular,
they've had very close economic
relations. I do think that a lot of
European countries and companies are
rethinking that. I think they're being
more clear-eyed about the risks and the
challenges of doing business in and with
China.
At the same time, that's a big market.
They do a lot of manufacturing there.
They have a lot of consumers there.
And so it's some it's a place where
people want to be able to do business,
but they want to be able to do it in a
reliable and predictable way. And that's
not the case right now and hasn't been
for some years.
So while I think that the European view
of China is changing and developing, it
doesn't mean there's going to be some
kind of massive decoupling in in the
same way that even in the United States,
we haven't had a massive decoupling from
China. We've reduced our reliance on
them. We've diversified from their
economy, but we still want to have a
constructive trade relationship if we
can.
>> Ambassador, you've been generous with
your time and we appreciate it. Thank
you, sir. The United States Trade
Representative Jamison Greer there,
Ambassador Greer, on the relationship
with the EU and the relationship with
the Chinese ahead of that meeting with
the president in about a week.
>> to be a huge meeting, especially on the
heels of what is going on with Iran and
the fact that basically China is saying
we're going to ignore some of these
sanctions threat, but he's saying he
doesn't want that to derail all the
other issues they need to discuss with
China when it comes to critical minerals
and chips and just a whole host of
issues when she and President Trump sit
down.
>> Stocks are record highs coming into
Wednesday. Added to them this morning up
by 7/10 of 1% on the S&P with an update
on news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yohai Ra Has more. Hey, Yohai Ra.
>> Hi, John.
The US quarterly refunding coming in at
$125 billion in [music] line with
estimates. Treasury will issue the
refunds via $58 billion of 3-year notes,
42 billion of 10-year notes, [music] and
25 billion of 30-year bonds.
The US seeing a steady rate of coupon
issuance for [music] the next several
quarters.
Recapping the latest read on the labor
market, ADP payrolls coming in a touch
[music] softer than estimates at 109,000
in April compared to estimates of
120,000. Goods producing [music] jobs
accounting for the bulk of those figures
with 94,000 added in the month.
And we are seeing shares of Corning
soaring [music]
more than 18% alongside Nvidia after the
two companies announced a major AI
infrastructure partnership. Corning,
>> [music]
>> which makes the connectivity systems
inside data centers, says it's ramping
up US manufacturing capacity [music]
tenfold as part of the deal. That's a
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey you Hara, thank you. Thank you very
much. Up next we'll catch up with David
Saith of Nomura looking ahead to the
data [music] this week including
Friday's payrolls report and reflecting
on the quarterly refunding announcement
from the Treasury just moments ago.
The opening bell just around the corner,
41 minutes away. Stocks at record highs
coming into Wednesday adding [music] to
them this morning up by 1% on the Nasdaq
100 this morning on the S&P up by 0.7.
This rally in this name helping things
this morning, that's for sure. Fantastic
numbers from AMD. Really strong guidance
as well. The stock is up in the
pre-market. [music] The stock is
absolutely flying. It's up by 15% at one
point it was up by more than 20. That's
one of the single names to watch
>> [music]
>> going into the opening bell. Elsewhere
we're looking at this in crude down on
Brent and WTI. Some diplomatic
breakthrough [music] on the horizon,
some encouraging signs. The president
out of everyone pouring some cold water
on the prospects of that being signed
anytime soon though, so
>> [music]
>> bear that in mind. Brent off the lows
102.55 this morning. And then this in
the bond market. So that move there
unlocking this move here. Yields across
the curve are lower by seven basis
points on the two year 3.87. It's
further out the curve where things have
been interesting recently, the 30-year
north of 5% is now a good time to issue
more debt at the long end of the curve.
The answer is no, apparently. The
quarterly refunding comes in from the
Treasury in line with estimates, no
change.
And also no change to the guidance. No
change on coupon issuance, and the
guidance to keep it steady, [music]
quote, for at least the next several
quarters.
>> This uh sort of puts to bed some [music]
questions about how much this particular
Treasury would remove issuance
completely the long end and move it all
to the T-bills. I will just say, the
fact that they still have an extra $60
billion to finance or something like
that, [music] means that that's all
going to be issued in the T-bill market,
right? So, this isn't necessarily not
changing anything, cuz there is more
debt that needs to be sold. It just
isn't necessarily in the coupon market.
>> David Zervos at Nomura joins us around
the table. David, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How much pressure is on this Fed, the
Kevin Warsh Fed, to keep rates low to
accommodate some of this?
>> Well, I that that's sort of the
direction we've always been uh at Nomura
thinking that it was going to go, that
that despite market pricing, uh which uh
even after the recent developments in
Iran show just minimal uh in the way of
uh additional Fed cuts, we still think
there additional Fed cuts coming uh this
year, and a lot of that, in fact, really
all of it uh
is what we think is uh really
uh a political decision to uh coordinate
a little bit more between the Fed and
Treasury, uh and and Warsh we expect
really being much more in line with with
Trump's way of thinking on interest
rates than than outgoing Chair Powell.
>> The rest of the committee is listening.
I know that many Fed governors tune into
this program in the morning. Good
morning to you. They'll be listening to
what you just said. Are they going to
come along for the ride?
>> Well, um we had three hawkish dissents
in the statement just last week. Uh now,
two of these were all by regional Fed
presidents who won't get a vote after uh
this year. Uh two of them uh Beth
Hammack and Loretta Mester,
we already uh were pretty clear that
they were were uh hawkish. Um, Neel
Kashkari from
Minneapolis, he had made a bunch of more
hawkish statements lately. Uh, our guess
is that he in March though did signal
that that at the time one more rate cut
this year was appropriate. So, you know,
we have seen a little bit of a hawkish
shift from the committee especially
driven by the voting regional Fed
presidents, but we still think that
among the voting members on the FOMC,
the 12 of them, there is a clear
majority uh that are still in favor of
at least one rate cut this year.
>> What's the economic argument for that?
>> Uh the economic argument is you really
got to sort of think that inflation is
going to be better than it has been in
the past several years, past six years
arguably.
Um, and uh
you also need to
um
you also need to have the view that that
the Fed funds rate at five and three and
five eights is restrictive where it is
and that it needs to be getting down to
neutral.
>> How do they execute this? Even if there
is some sort of Fed Treasury accord
without igniting a huge sell-off in the
long end of the yield curve and
potentially pushing up inflation
expectations?
>> Well, there is that risk certainly and
I I I certainly understand why some on
the Fed thinks think that cuts more cuts
are appropriate, but I also very much
understand where these dissents are
coming from and and where the
hawkishness is coming from. They need to
do it very carefully and I I would
completely agree with you that that
a sell-off at the back end
at least somewhat of a loss of
credibility is at least a risk for the
Fed. So, they need to make it clear that
this is uh this is something that really
remains data dependent and I think if
the Fed cuts more than a couple of times
certainly and the data continue to be as
strong as they have been.
>> What what data are we looking at? I'm
sorry, but if data dependent I mean the
data is coming out. The inflation is
going up. Jobs look fine. What data are
we talking about here?
>> Well, I mean you know listen, I hear
what you're saying. I'll I'll I'll sort
of adopt the the mentality
that AI is going to eminently lead to
uh
disinflationary productivity growth,
that
that the tariffs have added somewhat to
inflation and that's in the that those
are increasingly going to be in the
rearview mirror. And third point, and
this I really do think is is a very
strong point, that the war in Iran has
led to a big jump in headline inflation,
but not in core inflation. And the Fed
really should be focused on on core
inflation. And so to the extent that
wherever the starting point was, uh
they want to move
>> not data. This is what we said.
>> yeah, that that is the argument there
and I I again very much understand why
the so many so many of the regional Fed
presidents
are starting to push back against the
extent of of cuts or at least against
future cuts.
>> If this market's not convinced, this
dollar's going to absolutely hammer it.
If that's the direction of travel and
people start to latch on to what's
happening, this dollar is going to get
absolutely hammered.
>> Arguably, people say that it already
hasn't benefited as much as it would
have
in this particular scenario given the
strength of the economy, the fact that
it's an oil exporter, and the fact that
on the margins this Fed's getting more
restrictive.
>> David, it's good to see you.
>> Great to see you.
>> Thanks for dropping by, I appreciate it.
David Sief there from Nomura on what he
expects from this Federal Reserve, which
would be rather contentious if those
things do indeed materialize.
>> How do they make the argument?
Ultimately, you can make an argument
about a theory, but how do you make the
argument using data that you actually
are getting? And arguably arguably you
could say it is not a time for data
dependency given that this is a rapidly
changing economy that you have to really
adapt to. That said, how do you convince
people of a theory that a lot of people
have argued back and said, "We're not
going to see those productivity gains
for years." As you've said, it's a
sequencing problem. We're going to see
the inflation first, the productivity
later. How do you bridge the gap?
>> Didn't talk about payrolls at all, did
we?
>> We sort of mentioned it once.
>> Makes you wonder how relevant that is.
>> We mentioned it I think once. I'll go
[music] back and
>> Squeeze their hand right. We'll have
more tomorrow for you as we count you
down to payrolls Friday. Coming up
tomorrow Ishwar Prasad of Cornell, Dan
Skelly of Morgan Stanley, Sonu Desai of
Franklin Templeton and Liz Ann Sanders
of Charles Schwab from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This [music]
was Bloomberg Surveillance.